=* A Distributed Proofreaders Canada eBook *=

This eBook is made available at no cost and with very few restrictions.
These restrictions apply only if (1) you make a change in the eBook
(other than alteration for different display devices), or (2) you are
making commercial use of the eBook. If either of these conditions
applies, please contact a https://www.fadedpage.com administrator before
proceeding. Thousands more FREE eBooks are available at
https://www.fadedpage.com.

This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright
in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your country's
copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT
DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.

_Title:_ Black Plumes
_Date of first publication:_ 1940
_Author:_ Margery Allingham (1904-1966)
_Date first posted:_ Feb. 25, 2019
_Date last updated:_ Feb. 25, 2019
Faded Page eBook #20190246

This eBook was produced by: Al Haines, Jen Haines & the online
Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at https://www.pgdpcanada.net





                          [Cover Illustration]




                              BLACK PLUMES
                                  _by_
                           MARGERY ALLINGHAM

                 *        *        *        *        *

                  L A W R E N C E   E .   S P I V A K
                              _Publisher_




[Illustration]

                              Titles for the Bestseller Mysteries are
                              chosen from those books which have
                              had a large and continuing sale.
                              Sometimes they are reprinted in full,
                              but more often they are cut to speed up
                              the story—always, of course, with the
                              permission of the author or his publisher.
                              This book has been cut.

  =Bestseller Mystery, No. B33= . . . 570 Lexington Avenue, New York.
             Manufactured in the United States of America.

                 *        *        *        *        *

_Copyright, 1940, by Doubleday, Doran & Company, Inc. Reprinted by special
                              arrangement_
                 _with Doubleday Doran & Company, Inc._




                              CHAPTER ONE


THE OCTOBER WIND hesitated in its reckless flight to hurl a handful of
fine drops at the windows of the drawing room in the big Hampstead
house. The sound was sharp and spiteful, so that the silence between the
two women within became momentarily shocked, as if it had received some
gratuitous if trivial insult.

Old Mrs Gabrielle Ivory continued to watch her granddaughter. Her eyes
were bright still, as shrewd and black as they had been on an evening
nearly seventy years before when they had refused to drop before the
stare of another dominant woman who had sat on a little gilt throne at
the first Court of the season. Gabrielle Ivory had been quite as
forceful as Queen Victoria in her way and certainly very much more
beautiful, but now, as she sat in her high chair, surrounded by a
lacquer screen and swaddled in grey satin, she was very old.

The girl standing on the rug before her was barely twenty, yet there was
a very definite likeness between them. The eldest and the youngest of
the Ivorys both had the family’s beauty, the fine bones and that
expression which was sometimes called “straightforward” and sometimes
“arrogant.”

“Well?” said Gabrielle. “I’m an old woman, my dear, nearly ninety. It’s
not much use coming to me. That’s what you’re thinking, isn’t it?”

Frances Ivory’s long narrow grey eyes flickered. The old lady was
devastatingly right, and it was not going to be easy to explain the
sense of dismay which had crept over her at the discovery. Meyrick
Ivory, a widower who adored his mother, had brought up his younger
daughter to see the old Gabrielle as an almost legendary figure. To his
child she had always been presented as the beloved beauty of a golden
age, a link with the great Victorians, a creature larger than life in
power and importance, so that all through these last perturbing weeks
Frances had comforted herself with the recollection that if the worst
came to the worst, even though Meyrick himself was half across the
world, there was always Gabrielle up at Hampstead. It was hard to
realise, now that the moment of appeal had come, that she was perhaps
just a very old woman, too old and too tired to be disturbed.

The tiny figure in the high chair stirred impatiently.

“Meyrick is not expected back from China for some time, is he?” she
remarked. “How is Robert Madrigal behaving without him? I never liked
that young man. Why your insane half sister married him I cannot
imagine. Not a very suitable person to be in charge of The Gallery.” She
gave the title the capital letters which were its due. From the early
years of the last century, when her own father-in-law, the famous Philip
Ivory, had first purchased the fine house off St. James’s and had
exhibited there the collection of Gainsboroughs, 39 Sallet Square had
been The Gallery and so it was still, with a history of wealth and
prestige behind it unequalled in Europe.

“Well?” The old woman was persistent. “How is he behaving?”

Frances hesitated. “He and Phillida are staying with me at 38, you
know,” she began cautiously. “It was Meyrick’s idea. He wanted Robert to
be near.”

Mrs Ivory’s narrow lips curled. The mention of the house next door to
The Gallery, where she had reigned throughout her career, always stirred
her.

“So Phillida’s at 38, is she?” she said. “Meyrick didn’t tell me that.
You’re finding it difficult to live with her, I suppose? I don’t blame
you. I could never abide a fool in the house. What has she done now?”

“No, it’s not Phillida,” said Frances slowly. “No, darling, I only wish
it were.” There was a great deal more to worry about than the
shortcomings of her elder half sister. “Granny,” she began awkwardly,
realising that the words were childish and inadequate, “there’s
something going on.”

Gabrielle laughed. It was a little tinkling sound, as gently malicious
as ever it had been in the great drawing rooms of long ago.

“There always was,” she said.

“Yes, I know, but this is rather different.” Frances was taking the
plunge. “This is deliberate malice and it’s dangerous. I’m terrified of
sounding melodramatic and silly but I really do think that something
irrevocable may happen at any minute and something must be done to stop
it. There’s nobody to go to, you see. The staff at The Gallery is going
to pieces. You can’t blame them in the circumstances . . .”

“Oh, my dear, not business.” The old woman’s protest contained distaste.
“Leave business to men. When I was your age we thought it rather
indelicate for females to understand business. You should marry.
Phillida has no children—a mercy, of course, if there’s anything in
heredity—but someone must carry on. Come and talk to me about marriage,
not business.”

Frances stiffened. Her suspicion was founded. There was going to be no
help here. She turned away.

“Robert has just told me I ought to marry Henry Lucar,” she said. It had
not occurred to her that Gabrielle might recognise the name, since
Meyrick would hardly have mentioned so unimportant a member of the firm
to his mother. The rustle in the high chair came as a surprise
therefore.

“Wasn’t that the man who was rescued from Godolphin’s expedition?”
demanded the old lady. “I thought he was a baggageman in charge of the
camels, or was it mules?”

The girl laughed in spite of herself. “Oh no, darling,” she said. “Be
fair. He did go out as Robert’s batman, as a matter of fact, but that’s
nothing to do with it. He came back a hero and he’s in the firm now. I
don’t like him. Since Daddy’s been away I’ve liked him less. He was
always a bit of a smart aleck but just lately he’s surpassed himself,
cocky little beast. Still, it really isn’t snobbery that’s made me go on
turning him down. I wouldn’t care what he was if I liked him. I just
don’t, that’s all.”

She was speaking defensively, repeating the argument she had used to
Robert at that astonishing interview just before lunch.

Gabrielle sat up. Marriage was a subject which her generation had
entirely understood, and her bright eyes were hard.

“Did this person have the impudence to ask you to marry him?” she
enquired.

Frances writhed. The _démodé_ snobbery embarrassed her. It was so like
great age to get the whole thing out of perspective and to pounce upon a
single aspect.

“There was nothing impudent about it, darling,” she protested. “It was
only that when Robert began to badger me to take the horrid little brute
seriously I added it to these other more serious things that have been
happening and I got the wind up. You can’t blame Lucar for merely
asking. Why shouldn’t he?”

“Why? Don’t be a fool, girl, and don’t forget yourself. This man Lucar
is a servant, or was a servant until a gratuitous piece of good fortune
saved his life and made him notorious. You are a pretty, well-bred,
well-educated girl with a great deal of money. It is a ridiculous modern
affectation to pretend to disregard money. It does not deceive anybody.
No one thinks of anything else at heart. Your mother left you two
hundred thousand pounds. That is a fortune. Of course it’s impudence for
the man Lucar to ask you to marry him. Any man who proposes to you is
going to be in an embarrassing position unless he is either very wealthy
himself or has some special advantage which makes the exchange fair and
respectable. Robert appears to be out of his mind. I shall certainly
speak to Meyrick when he returns.”

She lay back, closing her eyes after the effort, and the girl stood
looking at her, her cheeks flaming. A great deal has been written about
the forthrightness of the moderns shocking the Victorians, but there is
no shock like the one which the forthrightness of the Victorians can
give a modern.

Frances came away.

Meyrick’s Rolls had never seemed more comfortingly magnificent. The
interview had been worse than useless, and she reproached herself for
attempting it. She was frightened. That discovery was alarming in
itself. It is one thing to go on from day to day with a growing feeling
of unrest and suspicion, but quite another to find oneself suddenly
convinced of serious trouble and to be in charge, especially when one is
not quite twenty and one is alone.

The chauffeur drew up outside 38, but she signalled to him not to ring.
If Phillida was still there the chances were that she was still in bed
with drawn blinds and her latest medico in attendance.

She left the car and walked on down to The Gallery, which opened austere
arms to greet her. At first blush 39 Sallet Square, where one could
negotiate anything from a castleful of Rembrandts to a humble modern
woodcut, was a cool and lovely private house. At the moment, however,
the normal elegance of the building was ruffled. The girl, who was
already apprehensive, noticed the changed atmosphere as soon as she set
foot in the hall.




                              CHAPTER TWO


“OF COURSE. It’s a serious thing and naturally Mr Field is furious.”

Miss Dorset leaned back in her chair in the secretary’s office and her
thin face flushed.

“What painter wouldn’t be angry if he was rung up by a gallery in the
middle of an exhibition and calmly told that one of his best pictures
had been slashed? Oh, Miss Ivory, I do wish your father was back.”

She was one of those thin women who had once been sandy and she had
grown old in the service of the firm without anyone noticing it, not
even herself.

“Is David Field here?” Frances’ tone betrayed her, but the other woman
was in no mood to notice it.

“Of course he is. They’re all up in Mr Meyrick’s office talking it over,
making a fuss and giving Mr Field something to tell everyone in London.
Formby’s story has made everything only too clear, and a very dreadful
thing it is too. It’s that big portrait of the Mexican dancer, number
sixty-four.”

“I don’t understand. Did Formby see who did it?” Frances was bewildered.
Formby, the commissionaire, had been with the firm for years and it
seemed hardly possible that any such unparalleled active violence could
have taken place under his nose.

Miss Dorset did not look at her. “He insists that everything was all
right at two o’clock when he went into the big gallery to speak to Mr
Robert, who was there talking to Mr Lucar. When they came out about
fifteen minutes later he went back again and found the damage. He gave
the alarm and North phoned Mr Field. It’s just like all the other
outrages, malicious, dangerous and obvious.”

“Does Formby actually say that nobody else was in there except Robert
and Lucar, and that they were together? Does he see what that means?”

“Don’t ask me.” Miss Dorset’s suppressed agitation lent her a certain
defiant rakishness. “I’ve worked for your father since I was seventeen
and I’ve got a great respect for him. I’ve been making up my mind to go
out of my place and write the truth to him ever since the Royal
Catalogue affair. Now I’m not so sure that I ought not to send a cable.
This is a very wonderful old firm with a great tradition and it’s a
shame to see it floundering in the hands of a lunatic, if he’s nothing
worse.”

Frances went slowly upstairs. The door to Meyrick’s private office was
open, and she paused in the corridor.

“Can your people downstairs repair the thing, Madrigal? How long are
they likely to be about it?”

The voice was not unexpected and Frances was irritated to find herself
jolted by it. David Field was reputed to jolt a great many women in his
casual, friendly passage through life. She went forward briskly, but the
heavy carpet deadened her footsteps and she stood on the threshold
unobserved.

The white-panelled room, once an eighteenth-century duchess’ boudoir,
looked odd with Robert sitting behind the big desk and Lucar lounging
idly by his side. Of all the unprepossessing people she had ever met
Frances was inclined to give Lucar first place. He was a pip-squeak of a
man, inclined already to fatness, with red hair and a red face which
clashed with it. Yet even these defects might have been tolerable had it
not been for his conceit. He alone of the group looked perfectly pleased
with himself. Robert was even more nervy than usual. His coffin-shaped
face was grey, he was punching small holes in the blotting paper with a
dry pen, and his hand was shaking.

Formby was standing solidly with his back to her, and in the armchair
beside him there was a tall thin figure at whom Frances did not look.
She was not given to shyness in the ordinary way but she did not glance
at David Field.

“Don’t worry, Mr Field. We’ll patch it up for you.” It was Lucar who
spoke, and his jauntiness was insulting. “It may be out of the show for
a day or two, but there you are. It can’t be helped, can it?”

Robert cut in at once. “You can rely on us absolutely. We shall see to
it immediately,” he said hastily. “I can’t tell you how shocked and
horrified we all are that such an accident should have occurred to such
a fine picture when it was in our care.”

“You’re insured, of course?” Field put the question absently and an
awkward pause ensued.

“Yes, we are, naturally. Fully.” There were unaccustomed spots of colour
in Robert’s cheeks. “Naturally. But in this particular circumstance, I
mean in view of the slightness of the damage, I think a claim would hold
up the repair work unnecessarily. After all, we do want the canvas on
show, don’t we? That’s the main thing.”

It was a bad cover-up and very obvious. Field rose and his lean figure
was silhouetted against the light.

“Look here, Madrigal, exactly what sort of accident was it?”

It was an invitation to frankness typical of the man, yet Robert did not
avail himself of it.

“I have no idea,” he said stiffly. “No idea at all.”

The painter shrugged his shoulders. “Oh, all right,” he said. “I’m
probably a fool, but get it repaired and back in its place by the end of
the week and we’ll forget the incident. But meanwhile, for the love of
Mike, do look after the stuff. Meyrick Ivory was a good friend to me
when I was beginning, and I don’t want to hurt the old man, but these
things are painted in blood and sweat. I can’t let ’em be carved up
indiscriminately. One more disaster and we’ll have to call the show
off.”

Lucar opened his mouth. He had a curious self-conscious wriggle of the
shoulders before making one of his more unforgivable utterances and
fortunately Robert saw it coming.

“Quite,” he said quickly. “Quite. North is upstairs now arranging for it
to be taken down. Perhaps you would go up to him, Lucar. Impress it on
him that he must take every possible care. It’s a terrible thing to have
happened.”

Lucar shrugged his shoulders. He slid off the edge of the desk where he
had been sitting and, turning towards the door, caught sight of Frances.

“Why, it’s Miss Ivory,” he said, giving the name an unction which was
both arch and insulting. “That’s cheered up my afternoon. Mind you,
wait. I’ll be down in a minute.” He flashed a meaning smile at her and
bounced out, leaving them all uncomfortable.

“Hello, Frances.” Robert forced an unconvincing smile. “You’ve met Mr
Field, haven’t you?”

“I should hope so.” The painter sprang up. “She was my first client. I
painted her when she was fourteen. The fee Meyrick paid me got me into
the U. S. Hence my career. Hallo, Frances love, I’m very depressed.
Someone’s been sticking knives into my beautiful señorita. What are you
doing now? Come out and have a sherry. Or is it out of hours? Well,
never mind, let’s go and eat ice cream.”

He was talking to relieve her from any embarrassment which Lucar’s
reception might have afforded her and she was grateful.

“There’s nothing I’d like better,” she said honestly.

Robert cleared his throat. “I didn’t think you’d be going out, Frances,”
he said. Frances caught the message in his eyes and was indignant. He
was actually ordering her to stay because Lucar had expressed a wish to
see her.

“Oh, but I am,” she said firmly. “I don’t get a sound offer of ice cream
every day. Shall we go now?”

She held out her hand to Field impulsively, and he took it at once and
tucked her arm through his. He swept her out of the room, and they left
Robert standing behind the desk, his shaking hands resting on the
blotting paper.

Looking back on that scene in the long, terrifying days to follow,
Frances Ivory was to wonder how much might have been altered, how much
disaster averted, had they stayed beside him.




                             CHAPTER THREE


THEY WENT to the Café Royal, which was practically deserted at that hour
of the day, and as Frances played with the sundae she did not want she
considered Field afresh. At fourteen she had decided that he filled the
somewhat exacting requirements of her ideal man. He had been younger
then than she had supposed, and now it occurred to her that the seven
years between twenty-five and thirty-two had not altered him
particularly. He still had the fine head with the sensitive, almost
ascetic features, which were contradicted by his expression, which was
both lazy and sophisticated.

“What’s going on at your place?” He put the question casually.

“Why? Did you notice anything?” She realised that the question was
absurd as soon as she had put it and he laughed.

“I did, as a matter of fact,” he said. “Either Phillida’s husband or
that painful little excrescence with the ginger hair stuck a penknife
into one of my best paintings. You may feel it’s negligible, but it’s
not the sort of treatment your poor papa would give a canvas he was
commissioned to sell. I may be wrong, too, but I thought you were in a
spot of trouble yourself. My dear child, you positively clung to me. It
was most touching. Don’t apologise. I liked it. My youth came rushing
back with all the vine leaves and tendrils of romance. However, don’t
bother. Don’t open up the family bone cupboard if you don’t want to. But
if you do here am I with nothing on hand, safe, sound and respectable,
also eager to sympathise. What’s up? The ginger twip has something on
Robert, has he?”

“Blackmail, you mean?” Now that the word was out it did not seem quite
so terrible.

“Well, I don’t know.” He was being cautiously casual. “I don’t suppose
Robert did the knifing himself, and when one chap covers up another with
such desperate determination the evil thought has a way of cropping up
in one’s mind. It’s horribly bad for business, though, that sort of
thing. I’m quite remarkably easygoing, even for a painter, and I’m
sitting here seething. Do you realise that?”

Frances looked at him sharply. His tone had changed slightly and she
caught him unawares. Behind his smile his round dark eyes were sincerely
furious. He caught short her stream of apology.

“I don’t want that, my dear,” he said. “It’s nothing to do with you or
your old man either. Those two lads evidently have something on and I
rather wondered what it was. That was all. Had any other trouble?”

She described the little incident of the broken Kang-Tse vase in the
antique room, mentioned the infuriating affair of the special catalogue
prepared for royalty only to be discovered, a heap of charred remains,
ten minutes before the august personage was due to arrive, and sketched
in the circumstances which had led to the resignation of the invaluable
old Peterson who had been with the firm for thirty years.

It was a curious history. The series of suspicious incidents, each one a
little more serious than the last, made up a considerable sum of
disaster, and the underlying fear in the young voice was appealing. He
listened to her attentively.

“It’s not good, old girl,” he said at last. “In fact it’s damned
disturbing. What are you going to do? It’s difficult to get Meyrick back
at once, I take it? You’re all pretty sure that Ginger is the man?”

“Oh yes, I think so.” Frances spoke soberly and afterwards she shivered
a little as an unbidden thought crept into her mind. He noticed the
gesture immediately. He was amazingly sensitive to her least reaction,
she realised, and put it down to his vast and notorious experience.

“Who is he?” he enquired. “Where did he come from?”

She began to explain, and a light of comprehension passed over his face.

“Dolly Godolphin’s Tibetan expedition? The secret climb through the
Himalayan pass?” he said. “I read about that at the time. Robert and
Lucar were the only two to return, were they? Oh well, that accounts for
a lot. Ginger probably saved Robert’s life or something. That show was a
sporting effort all round. All kinds of people might have thought up a
project like that, but no one but Godolphin could possibly have
persuaded a tough old nut like Meyrick to finance him. Robert went as
‘Art Adviser,’ if I remember? I can’t exactly see Robert on an adventure
like that, though. It’s odd, isn’t it? It always is the rabbit who
returns while the lion is left to bleach in the sun. Godolphin was an
extraordinary chap. He would have revelled in your present situation, by
the way. You knew him, of course?”

She nodded. “I saw quite a lot of him in the school holidays during my
last year. He and Phillida ran round together quite a bit.”

“So they did.” His eyes were wide and amused. “Your half sister believed
in numbers.”

Frances looked at him briefly. It had been true, then. Phillida had
always added Field to her list of conquests but there was never any
guarantee with Phillida’s reminiscences. Field, then, and Godolphin and
half a dozen others; they had all been in love with Phillida, who had
forgotten them for a string of imaginary ailments and who had married in
the end Robert, of all people. It seemed to Frances that the older she
grew the more extraordinary life became.

“Robert stuck,” she said slowly, continuing her thought aloud. “The
others drifted away and Godolphin got lost in Tibet, but Robert stuck.
He’s got a sort of character under all that nerviness, you know. There’s
a sort of determination about him which is almost terrifying. That’s why
I’m so stupidly afraid, I suppose.”

David picked her up. “That’s a strong word,” he said. “Why afraid? I
didn’t know people of your age were ever anything so undignified.”

“Robert wants me to marry Lucar,” she said frankly, “and although I know
it’s absurd he has such an uncanny way of getting what he wants that I
sometimes feel that I might go mad and do it.”

He caught her expression and his eyebrows rose.

“That’s damned insulting. Robert’s nuts, of course.”

“He’s such a little tick,” she said and he nodded.

“He makes himself a bit of a nuisance, I suppose? That type can. They’re
unsnubbable. You don’t like to go off to the South, of course, because
of the trouble, I suppose? Yes, well, that’s not good, Frances, my love.
You’re in a mess.”

She smiled at him wryly. It was very comforting and pleasant to be in
his company.

“You’d better get engaged,” he said. “That’ll scotch all that nonsense
until Meyrick returns. Betrothal is old-fashioned, I know, but it has
its virtues, like flannel. Any likely lad about?”

She laughed. “No one I could ask,” she said.

He did not seem to be particularly amused. “It ought to be someone you
know or it might lead to marriage,” he said seriously. “When’s your
father due home?”

“January or February.”

“A long time. Phillida’s just her own sweet self, I take it?”

“Just about.”

“Oh. Well, suppose I take you out now and buy you a ring? Not a
violently expensive one, but decent enough to show the relations. Any
good?”

He had lost a great deal of his lightheartedness, and it flashed through
her mind that he was embarrassed. She was astounded. David Field had one
of those curious reputations which are based on no concrete fact; that
is to say, although he was reputed to be a lion among women there were
no actual names with which his own was linked. There had been no
marriages, no divorces, no engagements. No one remembered any actual
affair of any duration.

He was watching her face and she reddened guiltily.

“I’m not asking you to marry me and I don’t suppose we ever should,” he
said with an abruptness which was unlike him. “I mean even if we became
hysterical about each other—and that sort of thing does happen, you’d
be surprised—there’s the question of money. I’m very sensitive about
money. You’ve got an indecent amount of cash. That rather rules out
marriage, you see. I was once accused of being a fortune hunter and I
damned nearly killed the old woman who suggested it. I had an Indian
club in my hand at the time—honestly, this is no laughing matter—and I
raised it. I didn’t hit her, thank God, but I was going to. I felt it.
I’ve never been more frightened in my life. My hat, that was a near
thing!”

He sat back and it dawned on her that he was not entirely joking. His
smile had vanished, and for an instant she saw determination in his eyes
and a half-frightened, half-passionate honesty.

“So marriage is off,” he resumed cheerfully. “However, I don’t go back
to New York until April, and meanwhile if you’d care for an engagement
ring let’s go out and buy one.”

Frances remained silent. She was not even sure if he was serious. On the
face of it the proposition was a wild one but it was attractive.
Meanwhile he continued to regard her quizzically, and she wondered if he
was laughing at her. As it happened, he was merely considering her with
the dispassionate curiosity of the professional painter. He saw that the
fine bones which he had painted five years before were now more apparent
and that the slightly upward line of the long narrow eyes, which had so
delighted him when he first discovered it, had become accentuated. She
was lovely, nor was it, he thought, the _beauté du diable_. When Frances
Ivory was as old as Gabrielle she would still have strength and breeding
in her shapely head, character and sensitiveness in her wide mouth.

“Well?” he said.

“It would settle one of my difficulties until Meyrick comes home, but it
seems a frightful imposition.” She made the announcement dubiously and
was then unreasonably dashed because he did not protest.

“Anything to oblige an old client,” he said lightly. “That’s a bet,
then. We’ll buy the ring, write the newspapers and go and tell the
family. That’ll be one embarrassment settled. When the time comes you
can throw me over for another or we can quarrel about the ballet, which
is a nice refined thing to do. Meanwhile stick to the story. That’s the
main thing.”

She hung back awkwardly.

“You won’t be upsetting anybody?” she enquired at last. “Any other
woman, I mean.”

“I? Oh, lord, no, I’m free, unattached and unbeloved.” He laughed at her
expression. “I’m doing you a signal honour in entrusting you with my
precious liberty. I hope you realise that! I’ve never even been engaged
before. None of the objects of my adoration has ever got her hooks in
me.”

“Why? Was it always money?”

He frowned. “Eh?” he said. “Oh yes, money. That and other things. Come
on, you’ll have to have an aquamarine with those eyes.”

They were laughing again as they stepped into the street, and the fitful
wind plucked at their sleeves and threw warm, soft rain in their eyes,
tormenting them, beseeching their attention. Afterwards they both
remembered it. As they went over each incident in that fateful day the
motif of the squalling wind kept recurring like the thin blast of a
warning trumpet, but they were deaf to it and went on their predestined
way unaware.




                              CHAPTER FOUR


“WHERE ARE THEY NOW? in the garden room? Oh, Frances, how could you do
this? How could you?”

Phillida Madrigal lay among the cushions on her day bed and wept.

“It’s the strain, the intolerable strain,” she whispered. “Wasn’t it
enough for me to be annihilated by the impossible scene with Gabrielle
without you rushing in and starting another with Robert and David
Field?”

Frances stood on the hearthrug of the white-panelled bedroom.

“I had no idea that Granny had come here, let alone that she was still
in the house,” she said, twisting the new ring round her finger. “It
never occurred to me that she might actually drive out and tackle
Robert. She’s so terrifyingly old. I didn’t think she understood a word
I said this afternoon.”

“Oh, she understood.” Phillida Madrigal forgot her tears in her anger.
“She’s as strong as a horse and as obstinate as a mule. I wish to God I
had her strength. When she came in on old Dorothea’s arm she positively
dominated the entire house. Robert was mad to be rude to her. She
listened to him, she let him rage, she let him say the most unforgivable
things, and then she simply sat down and sent Dorothea out to prepare
Meyrick’s bedroom for her. Naturally Robert protested—I did myself. She
said it had been her room for thirty years and she was going to bed in
it. What could one do? There was nothing to say. Finally Dorothea took
her up. Gabrielle ignored Robert. She simply looked through him. But she
had heard what he said. She’s dangerous, Frances. A hard, selfish, proud
old woman. And she’s in the house. It’s your fault. You may have killed
her. You may have started up anything. Oh, don’t you think you ought to
go down?”

She was sitting up now, and the faint light was kind to her, taking out
the petulant lines round her mouth and deepening the shadows round her
eyes, burnishing the copper lights in her smooth hair.

“How can I?” The younger girl spoke wearily. “Robert said he wanted to
talk to David alone. He could hardly have made himself more clear.”

Phillida got up and walked down the room, her lace negligee trailing.

“Frances,” she said suddenly, “have you ever thought that Robert might
be mad?”

The question would have been remarkable if only because it came from
Phillida and concerned the state of mind of somebody other than herself,
but up in the dark bedroom, with the firelight flickering and the wind
chattering round the house, its very directness shot a chill to Frances’
diaphragm.

“Why? Why do you say that?”

“Oh, nothing. I’m nervy. I hate this insufferable house. I’ve only been
married to him two years, Frances. He’s always been queer and difficult,
but just lately he’s much, much worse. He watches me, he watches you.
He’s made up his mind that you shall marry Lucar.”

“Then I’m afraid he’s doomed to disappointment, my dear.”

Phillida did not answer for some minutes, and when at last she spoke her
remark was unexpected.

“Did you know that David Field had a dreadful row with Gabrielle once
over me? It was years ago, of course, long before he became known.” She
laughed abruptly and threw up her arms in a sudden gesture. “Oh, why did
I marry Robert?” she said. “I was secretly engaged to Dolly Godolphin
when they went out on that ghastly expedition, and then when poor Dolly
was lost and I was brokenhearted Robert just happened to be there. I was
mad. Oh, Frances, be careful who you marry.”

She went back to the day bed and, throwing herself down upon it, began
to cry. Frances was staring into the fire. So it had been Gabrielle who
had called him a fortune hunter and raised the devil in him.

Phillida’s muffled voice cut into her thoughts with a startling
suggestion.

“For God’s sake go down to them. What can they possibly be _doing_ all
this time? They’ve both got insane tempers. Go down and see.”

Frances looked up sharply. “Perhaps I’d better,” she said and found that
her breath was uneven.

Just outside the door she ran into Dorothea, Gabrielle’s elderly maid.
The plump old woman was pale with unaccustomed excitement and she laid a
hand on the girl’s arm.

“I can’t do a thing with her,” she said. “She won’t go to bed and she
won’t take any drops. He didn’t ought to have said those things to her,
Mr Robert didn’t. She wouldn’t have stood it from one of her own and she
certainly won’t from him. She’s angry, that’s what she is. I’ve only
seen her like it twice before in my life, once when Mr Meyrick’s first
wife, Miss Phillida’s mother, ran off and left him, and once when she
had some words with a young gentleman who came to the house. She’s angry
and she’s old. She’s brooding. I wondered should I send for a doctor.”

“I don’t see what he could do, do you?” said Frances. “I’m afraid all
this is my fault, Dorothea. I’m so sorry.”

The old woman regarded her with the stern common sense of her kind.

“Well, it hasn’t done a lot of good, has it, miss?” she said. “I’ll go
down in a minute and get her a mite of hot milk. She may take that and
go to sleep. He _has_ upset her. They make me wild, these nervy men.
There’s something very wrong in this house. I notice it if you don’t.
Something very wrong.”

She went off down the corridor. Frances went on downstairs. The house
was quiet and almost dark.

The garden room was at the end of the passage off the main hall. There
were two doors side by side, one leading to the room and the other
giving out onto an iron staircase running down to the flagged yard,
which was all that encroaching London had left of an eighteenth-century
rosary.

At the mouth of the corridor she hesitated. A man was hurrying down it
towards her. To her astonishment she recognised Lucar. She was so
surprised to find him in the house at that time of night that she did
not move, and he came up to her. He was shaking with fury and his red
face was patched with white where taut muscles had banished the blood.
Also he was smiling. He paused in front of her. She attempted to pass
him with a conventional murmur. He shot out a hand, however, and,
catching her arm, swung her round. She was not prepared for his
strength. He lifted her hand and looked for the ring on it. When he saw
it he flung her away from him and strode off down the hall into the
shadows of the porch, leaving her angry and breathless.

She went on down the corridor, her courage up but her knees shaking.
Outside the door of the garden room she paused. There was an ominous
silence within, and her outstretched hand drew away from the latch.
Disliking herself for the subterfuge, she turned to the other door and
let herself out onto the iron steps. The yard was a well of darkness.

She went softly down the staircase and took a step or two across the
flags. Around her were dim forms in the faint light from the sky where
scudding clouds raced across the moon. There was a packing case
containing one of Meyrick’s Chinese purchases standing like a gun
emplacement behind her, and beyond, in the angle of the wall, was a
little shed where some of the wood for the gallery’s casemaking was
kept. Frances looked up at the great bulwark of the house. The curtains
of the garden room had not been drawn and she saw David distinctly. He
was standing behind the table, leaning on it and looking down. The scene
had the brilliant unreality of a stage-set. He was not talking but might
have been listening or merely looking, and his expression was curiously
blank.

It was that blankness which first terrified her; it was so unlike him.
His lazy smile might never have existed, and his eyes were hard and
apparently unseeing.

The moment seemed to drag out intolerably and then, just when she was on
the point of screwing up her courage to break in on them, came the
sound.

It was a little stir, a little shuffling which was not quite the wind,
and it was behind her. She swung round, her heart rising. The shaft from
the window made a narrow angle of light which ran right across the door
of the shed, cutting it in two and passing directly through the latch.
As she turned she could have sworn that the handle moved and the door
cracked inwards.

Panic, unreasoning and uncontrollable, descended upon her. She ran. She
fled up the iron staircase, through the corridor, across the hall,
mounted the main stairs and rushed over the upper landing into her own
room.

She was still there, crouching on the dressing-table stool, trying to
pull herself together and to force the terror which had seized her out
of her mind, when David knocked and put his head in.

“I took a chance on finding the right door,” he said, coming over to
her. “Well, my dear, we’re still engaged.”

The words were meant to be reassuring, but he was speaking with an
uncharacteristic jerkiness, and she stared at him in panic.

“What’s the matter? What’s happened?”

“Nothing.” The denial came a little too quickly and he laughed to cover
it. “I just thought I’d see you before I went, to tell you it’s all okay
in spite of our Robert’s unendearing manners. He’s going off for a walk,
by the way. It’s not a bad idea. The night air may cool him down a bit.”

“What did he say?”

“Just about what you’d think,” he said. “Forget him. We’re engaged. Good
night.”

She thought he was going to kiss her, but he merely touched her hand
abruptly and went out, closing the door behind him.

She stood where she was for some time and then, on an impulse, followed
him out into the upper hall. It was quite dark and silent, and she crept
forward to lean over the balustrade. The hall below was an inky pit, and
the sound of the front door closing startled her. She waited but there
was still no light and no sound of a returning servant, so she took it
that David had let himself out.

And then, while she stood there, something happened. Someone walked
sharply down the corridor from the garden room, crossed the hall with a
brisk, light step, and strode out of the house, closing the front door
firmly behind him. She saw no one. There was not a shadow in the dusk.
The sounds were so sharp and decisive that they should have struck a
reassuring note in that world of creaks and whispers, yet to the girl
clinging to the slender balustrade they were so horrifying that she
almost screamed, and as she crept back to the light of her own room they
sank into her mind with a vividness which she was afterwards to regard
as prophetic.

“It’s only Robert going out for his walk,” she said aloud to herself in
the mirror. “Only Robert going out, you fool.”

Yet on the following morning when Norris, Meyrick’s butler, announced
with casual urbanity that Mr Robert had not been in the house all night
but that his hat and coat were missing, and enquired a trifle slyly if
his letters had not best be sent down to his club, no one was
particularly alarmed.

Relief came first: relief for Frances, relief for Phillida, relief for
Gabrielle holding court in her great tapestry-hung bed.

Fear came later. It began on the third day when it was discovered that
Robert was not sulking in Jermyn Street, and fear deepened and grew into
dull terror when discreet enquiries at Blue Bridges, the Surrey country
house, brought no news of him, and when the valet at the Paris flat
wired back to say that Monsieur was not there.

Fear came with the letters to Frances, pouring in after the announcement
of the engagement. Fear came with the discreet enquiries from Robert’s
few friends. Fear came with a hundred and one little demands for
Robert’s decision in business matters.

Fear came from Lucar’s sullenness, from Phillida’s hysterics and from
the odd, preoccupied expression in David’s eyes.

And then one morning seven days after Robert’s disappearance two things
happened. One was the news wired from the wilds of the Northwest
province of India and flashed into every newspaper office in the world.
The curt message appeared on the evening-paper boards. Phillida read
them from her bedroom window as they stood propped up against the
railings of the square.

 GODOLPHIN SAVED

 FAMOUS EXPLORER
 ESCAPES FROM
 FORBIDDEN
 TERRITORY

She was standing there staring at the display when the second event
occurred which forced the first into obscurity, focussed the attention
of the entire city on Sallet Square, and brought Meyrick racing back
from China as fast as train and plane could carry him.

Frances came into her half sister’s room without ceremony. She was
trying to keep very quiet, very calm, and her grey eyes were dark with
the effort of control.

“Phillida,” she said huskily, “something’s happened. You’ve got to pull
yourself together, darling. You’ve got to be incredibly brave
and—and—— Oh, for God’s sake, keep your head.”

The woman swung round. “They’ve found Robert?”

Frances regarded her steadily.

“Yes,” she said. “Did you know?”

“I? No, of course not. I don’t know anything. Where is he? What’s he
done?”

“Oh, darling.” The young voice quivered and broke. “I’m so sorry. I
didn’t mean that. I don’t know what I thought. He—he’s been down in the
garden room all the time. His coat and hat were there too, lying on top
of him. That cupboard’s never opened, you know. There’s nothing in it in
the ordinary way. They’ve just found him. Norris called me.”

The words were tumbling out of her mouth in a helpless stream, and she
struggled to restrain them.

Phillida came quietly across the room towards her. She laid her hand on
her half sister’s shoulder and shook her.

“Frances, are you telling me that Robert is dead?”

The girl met her eyes and her own were panic-stricken. She nodded.

Phillida’s hand dropped. Her face was calm and her tone rather horribly
matter of fact.

“Thank God,” she said simply.




                              CHAPTER FIVE


“I SHOULDN’T COME if I were you, madam.”

The unnatural sharpness in the butler’s voice gave the words a macabre
quality of their own. Frances felt Phillida waver in the crook of her
arm as the two women paused abruptly in the passage outside the garden
room while the man barred their path in the sharp angle of the
half-closed door.

Phillida shook her head. It was a vigorous, meaningless movement, and in
that nightmare moment the gesture appeared to have a dreadful studied
idiocy.

“No,” said Phillida. “No. Get out of the way, Norris.”

The blaze of light in the garden room in the morning always came as a
surprise as one turned to it out of the cool greyness of the hall, but
today its radiance was pitiless. The sunlight poured into the room
through the wide-open window with the energy of a living thing. Nor did
it respect the deep recess behind the open door in the white panelling
but hurled itself within and pounced with indecent savagery upon the
dreadful thing, the thing with the mercilessly exposed head and the
strange, dusty-looking hair.

Robert Madrigal had died and stiffened and grown limp again. He sat
squarely in the bottom of the cupboard, his back supported by the wall
and his legs doubled up before him. Across his knees lay a raincoat, a
pair of yellow gloves and, final touch of ghastly incongruity, an
upturned bowler hat.

Frances took Phillida’s full weight as she heeled over, and Norris
caught them both as they reeled against the table.

“I said not to go in. I said not to go in,” he repeated infuriatingly to
Frances as between them they got the other woman out into the passage.
“I’ve phoned the police and the doctor. You take her, miss. I can’t
leave _him_, can I?”

Neither of them saw anything absurd in the final statement, although
Robert Madrigal had been left alone for many days and would be left
alone for an eternity.

Old Dorothea came waddling down the corridor from the hall where the
rest of the staff lingered in whispering conclave and put capable
nurse’s hands on Phillida’s elbows.

“Come along, my dear. Come along, my pretty. Come along, my brave girl,”
she said, slurring all the words together until they had no meaning but
made a single comforting sound. “And you, too, Miss Frances,” she added
over her shoulder with calculated tartness. “I don’t know what you think
you’re doing, taking her in there, and her so delicate as it is. Come
along, my dear.”

She had the dynamic energy of the sunlight itself, and her stalwart body
moved with the magnificent drive and precision of a little draught horse
surmounting a hill. Frances plodded on beside her, supporting Phillida’s
other arm.

The Italian bed in Meyrick’s room was an impressive erection. The
baroque gilt framework rose to the ceiling and the two movable wings
hung out on either side like banners. The bright tapestry of the
triptych had not faded and Matthew, Mark, Luke and John blessed the
couch which Gabrielle lay on in vivid blue and gold and red.

She sat up in it, wrapped in Shetland lace, remote and inapproachable, a
little yellow scrap of dying authority. Dorothea led the procession into
the room without ceremony. She lowered Phillida into a chair by the open
fire and began to slap her hands with rhythmic determination.

The old Gabrielle’s bright black eyes rested on the two of them for a
moment and the expression on her pursed mouth was almost contemptuous.
Finally she beckoned Frances over with a finger raised among the woolly
lace.

“Are the police here yet?” The old voice was brisk in spite of the
lowered tone.

“No, darling.”

“Does the servant know how the man died?”

“No, I don’t think so. I don’t know.”

“Go and find out and come and tell me. Hurry, child, hurry.”

It was extraordinary, as if disaster had fanned a flickering fire into
life again. So here was Gabrielle, a force once more albeit a fleeting
and uncertain one. Frances went out.

At the head of the staircase she paused. The hall was crowded. The
Georgian elegance of 38 Sallet Square was in the hands of the police.

Norris was there, very much in evidence. He was whispering to a
uniformed police inspector and another man, a tall, gloomy-looking
stranger in a spruce tweed suit whose grizzled head was held sideways in
a curious terrierlike attitude which she was to come to know very well
indeed. Directly beneath her a maid hovered nervously, and behind the
girl she saw the door to the service corridor was ajar and the
housekeeper listening behind it.

As she stood looking down there was a clatter on the flags as the police
photographers arrived. Their strident, decisive tramp touched a memory
in her mind, and her fingers gripped the polished wood.

Not so long ago she had hung over this same balustrade and had peered
down into the grey darkness, and on that occasion, too, there had been
sharp footsteps marching swiftly across the hall. Then it had been a
sound which should have been reassuring, and her own mental admonition
returned to her: “It’s only Robert going out, you fool. It’s only Robert
going out.” Robert going out? Robert going _out_! In view of the
morning’s discovery the suggestion was ghastly. Robert had not gone out
that night. At that moment a week ago when she had hung here listening
Robert must already have been sitting in the bottom of the big cupboard,
his head lolling and his legs twisted horribly beneath him.

Someone else had gone out. Someone else had walked into the windy
darkness. Someone else. . . . Who?

There was another movement in the hall below as a new arrival came
slowly forward from the porch. The entire company turned towards him,
and Frances felt the skin at the back of her neck tighten as she
recognised him.

She never forgot David as she saw him at that moment. It was not that
she had never known before that she was in love with him, nor did it
seem then or afterwards that his appearance had any deep emotional
significance. It was simply that he sprang to her mind, a vivid and
complete picture which never quite faded again.

He came quietly into the room, casual and friendly as usual. He glanced
round him with the faintly surprised expression which was half his charm
and suddenly glanced up, as if he knew where to find her, and raised his
hand in friendly salute.

Everyone stared at her, and she came down hurriedly, aware that she was
white and frightened and completely demoralised by the appalling idea
which had just come to her. Norris said something to the man with the
grizzled hair who came forward to meet her. She had no idea who he was,
and even had he introduced himself it is not likely that his name or his
exalted rank of divisional detective inspector would have made much
impression on her at that moment, but she could not fail to recognise
authority in his face nor to see in those small steady eyes that
rigorous honesty which is, perhaps because of its corresponding cruelty,
the most terrifying quality in the world.

“If you’ll chust wait upstairs for a little, Miss Ivory, I’ll send for
ye in a moment or two,” he said, revealing the soft voice and absence of
js of the Orkney Scot. The question which had been on her lips died
before it was spoken. She nodded and glanced at David Field, but the
newcomer was before her.

“You’ll be Mr Field, won’t ye?” he was saying. “One moment, Mr Field.
I’d like a word with ye.”

Frances saw the younger man’s eyebrows go up and caught his faint smile
before he turned and grimaced at her. It was the most reassuring of
gestures, revealing a comforting understanding of her mood. She warmed
before it gratefully, but as she turned away the new and horrible
suspicion came back to her.

“I heard him go out _before_ that,” she said vehemently to Gabrielle a
few moments later as she stood at the end of the bed once more. “It’s
quite clear in my mind. David went out first that night. I heard the
latch click just after I reached the stairhead. Then about ten minutes
later than that someone walked sharply down the passage from the garden
room and went out of the front door.”

“Yes,” said the old Gabrielle placidly. “How deceptive a noise like that
is in the night.”

They were alone in the enormous bedroom, the two of them, the youngest
and the oldest of the Ivorys, and they stood looking at one another,
summing each other up for a long time. Years afterwards it occurred to
Frances that she grew up at that moment.

She stepped back from the bed and walked over to the fireplace. The old
woman watched her, an expression that was purely feminine in her eyes.

“I had a nineteen-inch waist when I was twenty-five,” she said suddenly,
and for the first time in their acquaintance her granddaughter followed
her line of thought easily and replied to it without looking round.

“It’s my life anyway,” she said. “I know what I’m doing. You’re wrong
about David having designs on my money. He doesn’t even want to marry
me. The engagement was only a silly stunt to make things easier. I went
and bellowed my troubles to him about Lucar. I told you.”

Gabrielle glanced at the slim young back. It was a swift stab with the
little black eyes, and her husband, Meyrick’s father, who had loved her
and had needed every one of his shrewd wits to keep up with her, would
have recognised the symptom and congratulated his granddaughter.

“You heard the latch click and then afterwards, some time afterwards,
you heard someone else cross the hall and go out?”

The question was clear and lucid, with a brain behind it. For the time
being Gabrielle had returned from the shadows and inexactitudes of age
and her voice was as decisive as ever it had been.

“Yes, I told you. And, Granny, Lucar was in the house that night. I know
that because I saw him. I met him when I went down to the garden room.”

“When _you_ went down to the garden room?”

The interruption was very quiet but it brought the girl swinging round,
colour surging over her face. She told her story hurriedly.

“I went down to see how David and Robert were getting on together. I met
Lucar coming away from the garden room as I went through the hall but I
didn’t speak to him. I went on down the passage, but the door was shut
and I didn’t like to go barging in so I—I went down into the yard.”

“And looked up through the window?” said the old woman unexpectedly. She
was sitting up, with her eyes alive as a monkey’s. “Very sensible. Just
what I should have done myself. What did you see?”

Frances regarded her steadily. “Oh, they were just talking, you know,”
she said deliberately.

“You saw them both?”

“Yes, I did.”

“Are you in love?”

“No, I don’t think so. I don’t know.”

Gabrielle lay back. Her face was peaceful and she was half smiling.
Frances was half afraid that the excitement had proved too much for her
for she was silent for a long time, but when she spoke again it was
evident that she was still thinking.

“They say it’s unlucky to marry for love,” she remarked. “Very true. Did
you see Field again that night?”

“Yes. He came up to my room to say that we were still engaged and that
Robert was going for a walk.”

“To your bedroom? Quite like a servant girl,” she said.

Frances regarded her sombrely and finally shrugged her own shoulders. It
was a little skirmish across a century.

“We must cable Meyrick.” Frances spoke mainly to herself. “That’s the
first thing to be done.”

“We must see the police,” snapped Mrs Ivory. “We must find out what they
know about it. That’s the vital thing. If they want to come up here I’ll
see them, but you remind them I’m a very old woman.”

The final instruction seemed to amuse her and Frances, glancing at her,
wondered how much she comprehended of the horror, of the sick feeling of
catastrophe, as she peered down upon the scene through the long
telescope of her great age.

“What happened to Phillida?” she enquired.

Gabrielle regarded her blankly and once again the girl felt the ground
unsteady beneath her feet as she recognised the uncertainty of that fine
but fading mind.

“I left her here with Dorothea, darling,” she said gently. “Don’t you
remember?”

As she waited for the reply a clatter of voices beneath the window rose
up into the room, and the nightmare quality of her own position swept
over her. Gabrielle was a terrifying ally.

“Did you? Perhaps you did. I must have got rid of her. I told Dorothea
to send for a doctor. These piteous women without stamina! Fetch me my
hand mirror, will you, dear? What’s going on out there?”

The final demand was vigorous enough, and Frances threw up the window
sash. She looked down at the narrow path which ran round from the front
of the house to the yard at the back under an archway between 38 and the
gallery. The window was directly above the service exit, and it was here
that the noise originated. Mrs Sanderson, the housekeeper, was standing
on the flags. In her arms lay a weeping figure in whose neat blue-suited
elegance Frances had some difficulty in recognising Molly, the junior
member of the household staff. Molly was crying noisily with her
fashionable hat on the back of her head, her face buried in Mrs
Sanderson’s bosom. Standing before this inelegant and inexplicable group
was a solid young man in the boots of a plain-clothes policeman. He held
a suitcase in each hand and was using them to shoo the women back into
the house.

“Do it inside,” he was saying with the weary cheerfulness of the native
Londoner. “Have your cry by the kitchen fire, like Christians. Go along,
there’s good girls. Take her in, Ma. Take her in, do.”

“No. It’s not right for her to stay. Not another minute. She’s doing the
right thing. If you’re a policeman you show me your warrant.”

“Dear heaven!” said Gabrielle from the bed.

The comment implied reproach rather than astonishment, and Frances
leaned out hastily.

“Anything I can do?” she demanded.

The voice from the clouds had the instantaneous effect of all such
interruptions. Mrs Sanderson shut her mouth with ominous resolution and
Molly’s bellowing ceased abruptly. The plain-clothes man put down his
suitcases and pulled off his hat.

“Orders are no one is to leave the house, miss,” he said politely.

“Oh. Oh, I see. All right. Go in, Mrs Sanderson, will you? And you too,
Molly. I don’t suppose they’ll be long, or you can have your day out
tomorrow.”

A pink and blubbery face was raised to her from the shelter of Mrs
Sanderson’s cushionly façade.

“I wasn’t going out, miss. I was leaving.”

“Really?” Francis was astounded. All Meyrick’s servants were very real
personalities in his household, and their comings and goings were of
general interest to the entire family, so this casual method of
departure was an innovation.

“Oh, I see. Well, leave tomorrow,” she said awkwardly. “Anyway, go in
now. I’ll come down.”

“I wish you would, miss.” There was a world of unspoken promise in the
housekeeper’s voice.

Frances shut the window and turned back to the dressing-table to take up
the mirror. She did not see Gabrielle until she leaned across the bed to
pass the hand glass to her, and then the sudden change in the old
woman’s appearance came as a shock. Mrs Ivory was sitting bolt upright,
her face shrunk into a yellow doll’s mask. Her eyes were alive. They
were bright, like a mouse’s eyes, and quite as suspicious.

“What did she say?”

“Nothing. It’s only that Molly, the little middle maid, appears to be
leaving, and a policeman has just turned her back . . . My dear! Granny!
Are you all right? Hadn’t you better lie down?”

Gabrielle closed her eyes. Without their comforting intelligence she
made a terrifying picture. The old woman suffered herself to be settled
among her cushions.

“It’s all very tiring,” she said at last with a peevishness which was
yet reassuring because of its strength. “Where’s Dorothea?”

“I’ll get her.”

“No. No, don’t.” A small hand closed over her wrist with surprising
force. “Don’t. Stay here.” It occurred to Frances that the grip was a
restraining one rather than any actual need for support.

“I ought to go down,” she said gently. “I’ll find Dorothea for you.”

“No.” Gabrielle still had her eyes closed. “Frances, have you ever
thought that stepsister of yours was . . . a little _funny_?”

It was impossible to mistake her meaning, and the enquiry put so
directly and echoing Phillida’s own question about Robert caught Frances
off her guard.

“No,” she said. “No, darling, of course not.”

“You jumped, my dear.” The black eyes were open again and watching her.
“Does she talk to you?”

“No, not very much. She’s all right. This has been a terrible shock to
her, of course.”

“Naturally.” She remarked after a long pause, “That mania of Phillida’s
for doctors, that’s unhealthy. She never told you she heard anything,
then?”

“Heard anything?” Even from her mouth the words had a sinister sound,
and she glanced at the small figure in the bed with misgiving. “When,
darling? On the night Robert was . . . on the night Robert must have
died?”

“Oh no, before. Long before.”

“Darling, what are you talking about?”

“Forget it, my dear,” Gabrielle said placidly. “I’m so old I imagine
things. Listen, there’s someone coming across the landing.”

Frances turned her head. The house seemed silent for once that morning,
holding its breath perhaps.

“I don’t think so.”

“Yes, there is. My dear child, I haven’t slept in this room for thirty
years of my life without getting to know it. Open the door.”

Frances crossed the room. The heavy quilted door slid open noiselessly
under her hand and Miss Dorset, who had been hesitating on the
threshold, jumped guiltily.

“I didn’t like to knock in case she was asleep,” she whispered, dragging
the startled girl out into the hallway. “I’ve cabled our branch office
at Hong Kong. They’ll reach your father, wherever he is. How did it
happen? Do you know?”

Everything was painfully vivid that day, and Frances saw a complete
picture of the woman vignetted in the archway of the landing. The
unusual excitement had tinged her cheekbones, and there was a forced
heartiness about her which undermined her efficiency and made her seem a
less reliable person.

“I’m keeping it from the staff at 39 as long as I can,” she hurried on.
“There’ll be reporters, you know. What would you like done with them?”

Even at that time, when the publicity side of the disaster was a menace
unsuspected by most of them, the question struck Frances as absurd.

“What does one do with reporters?” she said.

“I can try to send them away,” said Miss Dorset defensively, “but
sometimes it’s as well to issue some sort of statement. There’s no one
at the gallery who can decide anything. I suppose I’m in command. I
can’t even get hold of Lucar. He hasn’t turned up yet.”

“It’s late, isn’t it?” Frances was vague. Time had become an
unconsidered element and years to have passed during the morning.

“Nearly half-past twelve. I phoned his house but he left there at nine.
I don’t know where he is.” Miss Dorset’s voice was querulous. “I’m
coming to the end of my tether, Miss Ivory. I can carry on as long as
I’ve got somebody in authority over me but I’m not used to being alone
and . . .”

She paused and the suspicious brightness in her pale eyes brought
Frances to her senses.

“Of course you’re not, Miss Dorset,” she said. “It’s all very dreadful
and sudden, but don’t worry. We’ll get by. You go back and carry on as
usual. If you get enquiries about Robert pass them on to me and I’ll
deal with them. Get hold of Lucar as soon as you can, of course. The
police will want to see him.”

She paused. The other woman was looking at her eagerly, half fear and
half excitement in her expression.

“Then it _was_, was it? I heard something, but I didn’t like to ask any
more. Who?”

“We don’t know. They’re finding out now.” It was a ridiculous
conversation. Evasion of the actual word was instinctive in them both.
Miss Dorset’s hand shook in the pocket of her coat and her mouth
trembled.

“It’s dreadful,” she said. “In over a hundred years we’ve never had a
breath of scandal and now it’s come when your father is away. Are you
sure Mr Robert couldn’t have done it himself?”

“Well, no. You see, he was found in the cupboard. He must have been
hidden there by someone.”

Miss Dorset nodded and was silent for a while.

“It’s extraordinary,” she said at last. “I’ve often wondered how I
should behave if ever I was confronted by a . . . a dreadful crime like
this, but now that I am it’s just like any other terrible thing, isn’t
it? Miss Ivory, Mr Lucar was over here that night. Did you know?”

“Yes, I saw him.”

“Oh.” The pale eyes rested on the girl for a moment, but she did not
pursue the train of thought. Instead she sniffed and said abruptly: “If
it had been the other way round I could understand it. Or if he’d done
it himself.”

“Could you? Robert was nervy but not suicidal.”

“Don’t you think so?”

They were still speaking in whispers, and the elder woman’s question was
sibilant in its sharpness. Frances gaped at her.

“What do you mean? What makes you say that?”

Miss Dorset hesitated, but when her words did come they were so
extraordinary that for the second time that day Frances received the
sharp little stab in her diaphragm which comes from a fear which is not
to be explained, the secret superstitious terror of the utterly
unreasonable.

“Did he never talk to you about the whistle on the telephone?” said Miss
Dorset. “He didn’t?” she added hastily as she saw the girl’s expression.
“Oh well, then, don’t mention it, for heaven’s sake. I ought not to have
said anything. I’ll go back. I daren’t leave the gallery any longer. Any
time I’m needed just send over. I shall be there.”

Frances caught the angular shoulder just as she was turning away.

“You sound as if you thought Robert was insane.”

Miss Dorset eyed her. “I did wonder,” she said.




                              CHAPTER SIX


THE YOUNGEST IVORY hesitated. Gabrielle’s room was quiet and she seized
the opportunity to be alone. She felt a desperate need for a pause, a
minute or two in which to pull herself together.

She turned into her own room mechanically and entered its cool fastness
with a feeling of relief which was shattered at once as a tall thin
figure stepped back from the window and came towards her.

“Hallo, Duchess,” said David Field. “I thought you must come along here
sooner or later. How are the nerves?”

He stood looking down at her, a cigarette case held out invitingly, and
Frances found herself thinking that he was a devastatingly good-looking
person. It was only a momentary respite, however. In a moment she was
back in the crisis again.

“What did they ask you?” she demanded, taking a cigarette. “Robert was
murdered, was he?”

“Looks like it, ducky.” She caught his expression as he held the match
for her and was surprised by the impersonal quality of its concern.
There was no fear there. He was thinking entirely of her. “The head nark
is a nice old Scot,” he went on lightly. “He talked to me like a father.
I found myself yearning to confide my secret inhibitions. What’s up? Why
the wide-open-eye effect?”

Frances, who had not been aware of her change of expression, found the
sudden demand confusing.

“There isn’t one,” she said hastily, and he laughed and put an arm round
her shoulders.

“You think I’m a mug, don’t you?” he said. “You’re a most refreshing
person, so trusting. I wish I were. Which reminds me, do you recollect
performing a Girl Scout act of mercy on my hand with a bottle of iodine
some time last week?”

Frances glanced up at him and her eyes flickered. She did remember the
incident. He had called in one morning to discuss the announcement of
their engagement, amusing her by his secret embarrassment. While they
were talking she had noticed a loose flap of skin on his knuckle and had
insisted on the antiseptic. She remembered standing in the breakfast
room, smearing the stuff on while she told him of Robert’s flight to his
club. It must have been on the first day, then, on the morning after
Robert’s death.

“Yes,” she said cautiously. “Why?”

He held out his right hand palm downward for her inspection.

“A complete cure,” he said. “Gone without trace. Ever heard of
Coriolanus?”

“Who?”

“Coriolanus. A hellishly noble Roman. He was touchy about displaying his
wounds. I’m just like him. I thought I’d mention it. Forget the incident
entirely, will you?”

His arm tightened about her and she stared at him, the full significance
of the request breaking over her in a shivery wave which caught her
breath and sent the blood flying out of her face. She was looking up at
him, her face so near his own that she only saw his mouth. She saw it
narrow and twist like a disappointed child’s, and then he had released
her abruptly.

“Oh, tell ’em what you like, ducky,” he said, “but for God’s sake don’t
dramatise the old man.”

“I’m not. But . . .”

“But what? But what, old water-colour eyes?”

They stood looking at one another, the man defensive and ostensibly
amused, and the girl hurt and in her heart most desperately afraid.

It was unfortunate that the knock should have come at that moment or
that, as neither of them answered it, the door should have been thrust
open by a startled policeman. There was quite a little group on the
landing. Norris and a plain-clothes man were there, as well as the
elderly Orkney Scot. Before that owlish and official stare Frances
slowly reddened. She glanced at David out of the corner of her eye and
saw him grave and slightly at a disadvantage.

“‘To the pure all things are slightly indecent,’” he quoted to her under
his breath and turned to smile at the elder man. “Have you met Miss
Frances Ivory, Inspector?” he enquired. “Frances, this is Mr Bridie, the
divisional detective inspector.”

“I’m cholly pleased to meet you, Miss Ivory,” said the D.D.I. “I’d like
a word with ye,” he continued and added, looking round him, “We’d hardly
talk in he-ere.”

There was nothing impolite in his objection; it was simply a statement
of his personality, and Frances, who was a stranger to the prurience of
the police, felt out of her depth and unjustly ashamed. They all went
out on the landing, and Norris and the two subordinate policemen
withdrew discreetly to the head of the stairs. Bridie glanced at David.

“I’d like my word wi’ the young lady alone,” he said mildly.

David nodded and drifted off to join the others. Bridie led her into the
corner of the landing.

“I don’t want a statement from ye yet, Miss Ivory,” he said. “This is a
serious business. A bad, nasty business, an’ the sooner we get to the
bottom of it the better for all concer-rned. I hear your sister’s ill
and can’t be distur-rbed, so the doctor says?” He paused enquiringly.

“My stepsister,” said Frances mechanically.

“Your stepsister.” He corrected himself. “Ma mistake. I’m sorry.” She
saw him making a mental note of a lack of sympathy between herself and
Phillida as clearly as if he had written it down under her eyes, and her
feeling of unsafety grew. “I know who ye are an’ all about ye,” he went
on in a gentle, avuncular fashion as if he were speaking to a child,
“an’ after a bit I’ll ask ye one or two questions, mebbe, but chust now
I wondered if perhaps ye’d tek me in to see your granny?”

“To see Gabrielle?” She glanced at the big leather-covered door across
the hall. “I’ll see,” she said and hesitated. “Inspector Bridie, what
exactly has happened? Was Robert murdered?”

He looked down at her, and his face, with its fine lines and arched eye
sockets, was gently disapproving.

“That’s a very unpleasant wor-rd, Miss Ivory. Your poor brother-in-law
was killed. How it happened I’m attempting to deter-mine.”

His ladylikeness provided the finishing touch to the nightmare quality
of the situation, and she saw him then for the first time in the light
in which she was to see him ever after, as the embodied spirit of that
gentle but inexorable and humourless enquiry which is the finest
tradition of British police detection.

“I’ll see Granny,” she said hastily.

Old Mrs Ivory laid down her hand mirror and settled her shawls more
carefully about her when Frances brought the divisional detective
inspector in some few minutes later. Dorothea stood wooden and
disapproving by the head of the imposing bed and Bridie advanced
cautiously. The old Gabrielle regarded him steadily. Her back was held
stiffly against the pillows and her eyes were alive and imperious.

“I have lived a very long time,” she said. Either as a greeting or as an
opening gambit the announcement was unexpected and unanswerable and the
Scot bowed.

“Ye have indeed, ma’am,” he said awkwardly. “I wouldn’t venture to
intrude upon ye if the cir-rcumstances didn’t make it ver-ry
desir-rable.”

The old lady listened to him with evident pleasure, for she smiled.

“What is Scotland like nowadays?” she enquired. “I used to go up to
Braemar in the season, long ago.”

Bridie shot an imploring glance at the girl, who went forward.

“Darling, this is the divisional detective inspector. He wants to talk
to you about Robert.”

“Robert,” said Gabrielle, and a shadow passed over her face, “Oh yes, of
course, of course, I was forgetting. I forget so much. So you’re a
policeman?”

The final question was put sharply and Bridie stiffened.

“I am, ma’am.”

“The police,” said Gabrielle and sighed, “in our house. I remember. I
remember. Of course. Poor Robert died yesterday.”

“Yesterday?” It seemed to Frances that he pounced upon the word as if it
had been an admission.

“Yes,” said Gabrielle, “and they only told me this morning. You told me,
Dorothea.” She turned to the servant with a tiny fluttering gesture.

“It’s part of my cheneral duties to enquire if there was anyone who had
taken any especial dislike to him, ma’am,” the inspector said.

Gabrielle closed her eyes.

“Robert,” she said. “Poor Robert. I never liked him myself. I remember
him quite well. He and my husband were not friends but business
associates. They never quarrelled but they were never intimate.”

“Darling, you mean Meyrick, don’t you? Meyrick, my father. Your son, not
your husband.” Frances made the interruption quickly. The fires had died
down again. The vital Gabrielle of the morning had disappeared into the
shadows once more. This was a very old woman rambling up and down among
her memories like a child in a garden.

“Meyrick?” The bright black eyes flicked open with interest. “Where is
Meyrick? Send Meyrick up here now at once. I’ve been asking and waiting
for Meyrick for hours. Why isn’t he here? Business must wait. I can’t
deal with people at my age. He must know that I can’t look after him all
his life.”

Dorothea bent over the bed.

“He’s away, ma’am. He’s abroad, my dear. Mr Meyrick will come sooner or
later. Don’t you keep fretting.”

Her tone was intentionally soothing, but underlying it resentment
seethed and boiled. Gabrielle seemed to notice it for she laughed
softly.

“Poor Dorothea. And poor Gabrielle. Poor Gabrielle is old. Old. Too old.
Let me think. Ask your question again, my man.”

It was a gallant effort; the old mind struggling to continue to rouse
itself into working order was pathetic, and Bridie’s troubled expression
grew.

“Ye were saying that ye weren’t ver-ry fond of Mr Robert Madrigal
yourself, ma’am,” he said. “Ye had a few wor-rds wi’ him when ye came up
here from Hampstead, mebbe?”

“No.” Gabrielle seemed perfectly lucid and even forceful. “He was rude
to me and I told him I should stay here in my own room until Meyrick
returned.”

“Until your son retur-rned,” said Bridie, snapping down upon what he
appeared to regard as an admission.

“Certainly,” agreed Gabrielle. “Until my son returned from business.”

“Or from abroad?”

The old Gabrielle looked a little frightened. Her black eyes flickered
and she moved her hands helplessly.

“I forget,” she said to Bridie with all the gracious apology of her
period and her breeding and all the charm of her eternal feminity. “I’m
so old. I forget. Forgive me.”

He looked embarrassed, as well he might have been, and Dorothea with her
eyes watering bent over her mistress again.

“It’s death,” she whispered. “Mr Madrigal is dead, ma’am. They’ve found
Miss Phillida’s husband dead in the cupboard downstairs. I told you.”

Gabrielle stared at her with the astonished look of the baby or the
wandering mind.

“Was that today?” she said. “I thought my husband was with me when you
came in to tell me that. Oh, dear, the years close up on me. I thought
that was years ago. Robert Madrigal dead today and the police in the
house? Oh, dear.”

Bridie’s attitude underwent a complete change.

“I’ll apologise for intruding on ye, ma’am,” he said, and evidently
Gabrielle’s old charm had not deserted her for he looked as gallant and
as virile as an old man with a prim face and a sober suit may well be.
“I won’t trouble ye any longer. I’ll thank ye ver-ry much and I’ll ask
ye to excuse me. Good mor-rning.”

“Good morning,” said Gabrielle and remarked to Dorothea before he was
out of the room, “A nice creature. Who did you say he was?”

The divisional detective inspector looked younger and his colour had
heightened when he came out onto the deserted landing again.

“She’s a grand old lady,” he said to Frances in a burst of confidence
which he did not often permit himself, “but remar-rkably old. I’m cholly
grateful to you for taking me in. I’m glad I saw her. When one’s old
like that the days and the year-rs appear to get mixed up in one’s
mind.” He sighed and added seriously: “What an awful thing for a poor
old body like that! She came here over a week ago, you say?”

“Yes. On the day Robert—on the day we thought Robert went away.”

“Ah, she did?” He reconfirmed the point. “That’s chust what I
under-rstood. And she was thinking about her son, your father, about
that time, wasn’t she?”

“Yes, I suppose she was. I’d been talking to her about him that
afternoon.”

“Ye had?” He seemed pleased. “Mebbe that accounts for it. Ye see, on the
mor-rning after she came here, ear-rly, before the news of Mr Madrigal’s
so-called departure was announced, she sent the wee maid Molly down to
the post office wi’ a cable to your father’s agents in Hong Kong. The
girl can’t remember the message wor-rd for wor-rd, but it was for him to
come home immediately. Did ye know that?”

Her face answered him, and he laughed at her kindly.

“Ye’d never mek a liar-r,” he said.

He was silent for some little time and then startled her out of her
senses by a second question.

“Did you know the little maid, Molly, was dismissed this mor-rning by
the old woman who waits on your granny? Tur-rned out of the hoose, she
was, not a quar-rter of an hoor after the body was found.”




                             CHAPTER SEVEN


FRANCES WAS ALONE in the breakfast room early the following morning when
Miss Dorset came running over with the news. She came in breathlessly,
shut the door behind her with unconsciously exaggerated caution and
advanced to the table, leaning upon it with one capable hand.

“He’s gone,” she said.

“Who? Lucar?”

It may have been an ungenerous reaction, but Frances felt her heart jolt
with pure hopefulness.

Miss Dorset nodded. Her eyes were bright and her shiny face glowed with
excitement.

“Can you beat it? It went through my head yesterday, but I didn’t like
to say anything of course. I got on to his flat as early as I dared this
morning, and his servant said he’s still not back. He walked out just
before nine yesterday morning and he hasn’t been seen since. There’s
only one explanation that comes to one’s mind, isn’t there?”

Frances got up. “My God,” she said involuntarily. “If it’s true. If only
it’s true!”

Miss Dorset looked at her curiously. “I felt like that myself,” she said
and sniffed. “It’s a relief. There’ll be a trial when they catch him,
you know. The police are after him already. The servant told me there’s
been a man hanging about the place all night. Well, I’m not surprised.
He was behind all that trouble we’ve been having at the gallery. I’ve
known that from the beginning. Naturally I couldn’t do or say anything
about it with Robert Madrigal in charge. _He_ had me frightened out of
my wits at the end of the time. How _was_ he killed? Do you know?”

“No, I don’t.” The girl’s face was haggard and the delicate line of her
chin fine-drawn. “That’s the most terrifying part of the whole thing.
The entire affair has been taken out of our hands. The police come and
go and hang round the house and send for us and ask questions and go
away again. Norris seems to know most and he gets that by gossiping with
the detective on the back entrance. I feel as though we were all sitting
blindfolded in a glass case. Everyone can see us and we can’t see
anybody, not even each other.”

Miss Dorset sat down heavily.

“It is a bit like that,” she agreed. “Old Mr Worthington wasn’t too
helpful, was he? Still, you can’t expect an elderly solicitor of that
sort to be at his best in a case like this. I sent him round, though,
you see, because you must all be represented at the inquest, and he was
Mr Madrigal’s man as well as the firm’s.”

“He was very kind,” said Frances dubiously. “He was here all yesterday
afternoon. Phillida couldn’t see him, but Gabrielle kept him talking for
hours. I tried to get a little information out of him, but he simply
patted my hand and told me not to worry. I may be wrong, but my
impression was that he didn’t want to be mixed up in anything
unpleasant.”

Miss Dorset raised her pale eyes.

“You can’t really blame him, can you?” she said bluntly, and the words
were so unexpected that Frances showed her surprise and she laughed
awkwardly. “It’s not so bad now we know it was Lucar,” she said in a
singularly unfortunate attempt to sound comforting. “Before that—well,
it was very awkward, wasn’t it? I mean, my dear, it was so obviously
someone in the house that night.”

Frances felt the ground tremble beneath her feet.

“I suppose it was,” she said dully.

“Well, naturally.” Miss Dorset laughed the dry little laugh of the
common-sensed. “I was very frightened for you yesterday. . . . He’s such
a nice man, isn’t he? I’ve admired his painting for years.”

There was no mistaking her inference, and the thin blush on her cheeks
drove the observation home.

“Oh, I never thought that David had anything to do with it,” began
Frances firmly, hoping that her face would not betray her.

Miss Dorset squeezed her arm.

“Of course you didn’t, my dear,” she said devastatingly. “No one would
have expected you to.”

There was a difficult pause and she went on hurriedly.

“I haven’t had a reply to my China cable yet. Your father really is
needed here. There’s no one in authority left at all next door, except
me.”

Frances was contrite. “Daddy’s coming. I forgot to tell you. A message
came last night after you’d gone home. He wired from Alexandria. He’s
coming on by plane this morning. He’ll be here tomorrow. Apparently
Gabrielle cabled him last week.”

“She did?” Miss Dorset was astounded. For an instant her pale blue eyes
were suspicious, and at that danger signal Frances recovered the new
poise and caution which had momentarily deserted her.

“Yes,” she said easily. “Last week I went up to Hampstead with a tale of
woe, and apparently I frightened the old darling and she went into
action and sent for Papa.”

The story sounded convincing, and if it were not the truth at least it
would have to serve. Miss Dorset was appeased.

“Tomorrow,” she said. “That _is_ good news. Oh, I am glad. Oh, well
then, we shall all be perfectly all right. I’ll look up the plane and
send the car down to meet him. There’s a lot of news for him. Mr
Godolphin, for one thing. I was glad to hear that he was safe after all
this time, but I’ve not had a moment to think of him. Your father will
be delighted over that. Oh dear, this _is_ good!”

Her smile was transfiguring.

“It’s a terrible home-coming, of course,” she added with sudden gravity.
“Poor man, what a shock! Still, I shall be relieved to see him.”

This information appeared to have quite superseded her own news of
importance and she went off almost immediately, completely preoccupied
with preparations for Meyrick’s return.

The youngest Ivory remained by the window, the straggling yellow light
spilling on her hair and her unexpectedly firm chin. Long afterwards,
when she looked back on that early morning, it seemed to her that the
two hours of comparative peace which followed it were the lull before
the hurricane and a special dispensation of providence to enable her to
get her breath before the buffeting whirlwind of catastrophe which was
to come.

Gabrielle was still asleep in her great brass bed. Phillida was too
prostrate to be disturbed, and then there seemed no sense in breaking in
on either of them with the gossip.

So it had been Lucar. The information lifted a weight off her lungs as
surely as if it had been a physical reality. She felt she could breathe
and think again.

She began to think at once of David and she saw him again in her mind’s
eye as she had seen him from the yard that night. He was quite clear in
her memory, standing in the garden room looking down at something with
no expression at all on his face. Looking _down_. . . . And then the
idiotic request for secrecy about his injured hand.

She walked down the room to rid herself of this line of reasoning and
came to a full stop, wondering again exactly how Robert had been killed.
She wrenched her mind away with a deliberate effort, and forced herself
to think of Lucar. Apart from the fact that he was the sort of man whom
one would hope to find guilty of any serious crime in his vicinity, he
had practically proved it by running away. Yet it was not going to be
quite so easy, she realised. When she had met Lucar at the end of the
garden-room passage he had been speechless with injured pride,
disappointment and jealousy. Those had been the emotions which had
controlled him. He had looked at the ring on her hand and had flung
himself out of the house. Conceivably he might have come creeping back
afterwards, but if so no one had seen or heard him, and the front door
had a spring lock.

Meanwhile David had certainly been in the garden room after Lucar left.
She herself had seen him there, looking down. . . .

It was odd that not until then did she remember the handle of the shed
turning so slowly in the shaft of light. Until now she had dismissed it
as evidence of her own unbalanced imagination, but now the picture came
back to her with fresh certainty. Someone must have been in that shed.
Someone must have stood hidden in that fitful, breathy darkness,
watching and waiting. It could not have been Lucar. She had heard the
front door clang behind him as she went down the passage and, even had
he rushed round to the back of the house immediately, she must have seen
him as she came out onto the iron staircase.

Nor could it have been David, for David had been in the garden room,
framed in the brilliant square of the lighted window, even while she
watched the handle turn.

Who was it, then? Who else had been moving about the quiet shadowy house
that night?

Finally she obeyed her impulse to go down to the yard and look at the
shed by daylight. Without pausing to consider why, she avoided the
garden-room passage and went out through the kitchen, where an unnatural
gloom prevailed. She received a pitying leer from Mrs Sanderson, while
Molly glowered at her unreasonably from above a pile of potato peelings.
Mercifully neither of them was inclined to talk, and she came out into
the yard to see it with the new eyes which disaster lends to familiar
objects as a shabbier, homelier place than it had appeared a week before
on that night when the wind had been high and the shadows had made
mountains of the tall houses on its border.

Today the erstwhile rose garden looked small and dirty, as such air
shafts do in a small city.

Frances went over to the shed feeling foolishly guilty. She had no idea
what she expected to find in it. Whoever had been hiding there a week
before would not, presumably, be there still. Nevertheless she turned
the handle cautiously and with some of the wild panic of childhood drew
the door open.

She had moved slowly but not quite slowly enough. Although the small
room was in darkness the atmosphere struck warm, and out of the tail of
her eye she caught the fleeting impression of light hastily
extinguished. She stood still, her flesh crawling.

“Who,” she began in a small unnatural voice, “who’s there?”

There was no reply, no movement, and she wavered. The obvious thing to
do was to fasten the door and to go back to the house for a light, and
she was drawing back when the voice came, casual and unexpectedly
familiar.

“It’s you, is it, Miss Ivory? Chust come in a moment, will you?”

Divisional Detective Inspector Bridie switched on his torch as he spoke,
and the dusty cavern shot into view. He was sitting on an upturned
packing case in the far corner, using a pile of whitewood boards as a
temporary table. Frances gaped at him.

“You frightened me,” she said, speaking directly because it was the
truth. “What on earth are you doing here in the dark?”

He chuckled. “Minding my own business,” he said affably, adding, “I
tur-rned off my light to see what ye might be going to do doon here. Why
did you come snooping ar-round?”

“I didn’t.”

“That’s a cholly silly thing to say when I saw ye myself.” A great many
people besides Frances Ivory had found Ian Alexander Bridie an
impossible man with whom to argue. She came further into the shed,
struggling with a natural inclination to justify herself, and came to an
abrupt pause as she took in the extraordinary collection lying under his
square hands. There were some fifteen or twenty long narrow implements,
ranging from an ordinary meat skewer to a fine mounting knife in a bone
holder, spread out on the whitewood pile.

He let her look for a long time and suddenly swung round, torch in hand,
so that the beam fell directly on her face. Evidently what he saw there
disappointed him for he set the light down again and sighed.

“I’ve made a cheneral sear-rch of the two houses,” he said
conversationally. “I’ve been everywhere except in your granny’s bedroom.
Ye can’t think of any other wee weapon in this sor-rt of shape, can ye?”

Frances took up a long, blunt blade mounted in a petit-point covered
handle. It was one of those mysterious and apparently useless gadgets
which had come in a box containing a buttonhook and a shoehorn.

“That’s mine,” she said, her natural indignation mingling uncomfortably
with a new feeling of personal insecurity.

“I know it is,” he agreed. “I took it out of a drawer in your dresser.
It’s too big and too blunt, I’m afraid. That’s the sort of chigger I’m
after, but it’s over shor-rt.” He indicated the mounting knife as he
spoke. “The old man in the workshop swore it was the longest he had seen
in the trade, and I doubt me if he was lying.”

“Was Robert killed like that?”

“If ye’ll say why ye were snooping round in here mebbe I’ll tell ye,” he
suggested. “After all, it’ll likely be in the evening papers.”

“I came down to see if there was anyone—anything here,” she said at
last.

“Ye said ‘anyone,’” he objected. “A lurkin’ blackamoor, mebbe?”

“A what?”

He laughed. “Ye don’t listen to ser-rvants’ gossip, I see,” he said
cryptically. “Well, who was it ye were looking for? The wee red-hair-red
fellow?”

This time he struck a bull’s-eye and seemed pleased at her change of
face. Frances stiffened. He was a dangerous old man, an old man who
caught one out and surprised one into dangerous admissions.

“I certainly didn’t come here to look for Henry Lucar,” she said firmly.
“Please get that idea out of your mind. I only thought that if anyone
was hanging about the house that night this would have been the one
place in which they could have hidden and kept an eye on the garden
room.”

“Ah.” He had turned on his packing case and now sat regarding her
contemplatively. “Ye thought that, did ye? So did I. Well, I’ll keep my
bargain. The deceased was killed by a chab in the chest, passing between
the fourth and fifth ribs and pier-rcing the hear-rt bag. The blade of
the weapon was appr-roximately half an inch or two longer.” He jerked
his head at the collection on the pile of wood behind him. “These are
all overshort,” he repeated, “but I’ll take ’em along. They’re the best
I can find.”

While she was still digesting this gruesome information he leant forward
and remarked quietly: “That’s very chenerous of me, considering that ye
did not think fit to mention that ye came down to the yar-rd here
ye’self on the night of the crime.”

She stared at him. Her heart had leapt so violently that her first
thought was that he must have heard it.

“How do you know?” It was an idiotic question, revealing and
acquiescing, and she heard it come out of her mouth with dismay.

“Your granny’s old maid told me.”

She stood looking at him, unaware of the picture she made with her head
held up a little and the conflicting lights meeting on the clean
youthful lines of her face and throat. Dorothea had told him. Dorothea,
who had evidently heard it from Gabrielle. It seemed a peculiar piece of
secondhand information for her to pass on unless she had some very good
reason for doing so, or unless she had offered it as a sop to Cerberus
while she hid something more important.

“I did come here that night. I didn’t like to interrupt David and Robert
by going into the room, so I came out here to see if I could see in
through the window. They were talking about my engagement, you see, so
naturally I wondered how the interview was going.”

“Naturally,” he said, and she thought his mouth twisted in a half-smile.
“How long would you have stood in the yar-rd?”

“About a minute. Perhaps two. I ran in almost at once. I was . . . I
mean something frightened me.”

“What was that?” He made it sound a most prosaic question, and she told
him the story of the shed door opening with growing discomfort.

It did not make a very convincing story, but Bridie noted down the facts
on the back of an old envelope without comment.

“Now,” he said at last, “when ye looked through the window what did ye
see?”

“David and Robert talking.” She had told this lie before and it came
glibly.

Bridie’s pencil hovered over the page, and beneath their deep arches his
eyes were thoughtful.

“Ye’re certain ye saw both men?”

“Yes.”

He sighed and replaced the envelope.

“Ah well,” he said, “I’ll not be keeping ye, Miss Ivory. Thank ye for
your help. By the way,” he added as she turned towards the door,
“there’s one wee point I forgot to mention when I was telling ye how the
deceased met his death. There was a contusion on the back of the poor
chap’s heid and another on his chin. The one on his chin was likely made
by a blow from a fist an’ was delivered with such violence that there’s
a likelihood that the assailant’s hand was damaged. Now, during this
week you’ve seen Henry Lucar, who’s missing. Have ye noticed any mark on
his hand?”

It was such a highly improper question from a police officer that she
saw the trap.

“No,” she said so coolly that he was not sure if she was controlling
herself by a superb effort or merely registering disapproval of his
methods of interrogation. “I’m afraid I haven’t. It’s hardly a thing I
should have noticed.”

Bridie resigned himself to this defeat philosophically, as was his
temperament.

“Likely not,” he agreed and waited slyly until she was half out of the
door before he added briskly, “He’s in the hoose now, ye know. Came in
forty minutes since and went straight up to your sister—excuse me, half
sister.”

Frances turned in astonishment.

“Lucar?” she demanded.

“Oh no.” He watched her carefully as he spoke. “He’s still away, the
de-leeriously silly fellow. I was speaking of your fiancé, Mr Field.
Haven’t you seen him this mor-rning? I thought it was odd him coming and
asking directly for Mrs Madrigal and odder still that she should see
him. Ah well, I’ll not detain ye. Never concern yourself about me. I’ll
chust be in and out all the day.”




                             CHAPTER EIGHT


IT IS QUITE POSSIBLE to cross a yard, enter a house and climb up two
flights of stairs without being conscious of movement. Petrifying terror
had taken possession of her. At that time she had no jealousy or she
would never have burst in on them so unceremoniously. At that moment she
was only afraid for David. She did not even knock but wrenched open the
door and went straight in, coming to an abrupt halt halfway across the
plum-coloured carpet.

By daylight the room’s modern opulence was faintly offensive. David and
Phillida were caught in their pose like figures on a canvas, vivid
against the rich, warm background. They sat on either side of a narrow
walnut table, with the gilt telephone between them. Phillida’s long bare
arms were stretched out across the wood, her head between them bowed in
an abandonment of misery. David held her wrists, his hands looking solid
and masculine against the transparency of her skin. He was half out of
his chair, an arrested picture of compassionate eagerness.

It was only for an instant, of course. Before the door had closed he was
on his feet, his hands in his pockets and his uncomfortably handsome
face grave and embarrassed, while Phillida sat up slowly and looked at
the newcomer with great drowned, pale blue eyes. Nobody spoke. There was
a full minute of complete silence, during which Frances realised firstly
that there was some sort of emotional crisis going on, secondly that
they had some secret from which she was excluded and finally and most
shatteringly that there was no earthly reason why these things should
not be. After all, she had no proprietary claim on David. Their
engagement had been an act of courtesy and obviously did not entail
fidelity.

The sensation of disappointment and loneliness which swept over her was
so salutary that it startled her into her senses and she grew slowly
crimson.

“I’m terribly sorry, you two,” she began. “Shall I get out, or . . .”

Her voice died. They were neither of them looking at her but were both
eying the telephone with the same degree of fascinated interest. As they
watched it began to ring.

Phillida put out her hand and picked up the receiver. She was green. Her
mouth was stiff and unmanageable and she closed her eyes.

“Yes?” said Phillida, the word scarcely articulate. “Yes . . . It’s me
. . . Phillida. Oh, my dear, don’t . . . don’t bother . . . What? Oh, I
am. I am, I am. . . .” The last word was a cry, and a long pause
followed while the instrument crackled excitedly. “When?”

The fear in her voice startled both listeners. Her eyes had opened and
were wide and ugly.

“So soon? I see . . . Yes, I’m glad. Of course I’m glad. Of course I am.
Of course . . . Good-bye . . . Darling, good-bye. . . .”

The instrument clicked but she did not replace it, but sat staring
stupidly in front of her. In the end it was David who took the telephone
from her and put it back on its stand.

“You didn’t tell him,” he said accusingly.

She shook her head and began to cry. He turned away from her and strode
down the room. Frances was bewildered.

“You ought to have,” he said over his shoulder. “It was the only
possible thing to do. When does he get here?”

“On Thursday.” Phillida whispered the words as if they had been a
pronouncement of doom.

“A day after Meyrick? My God, suppose something happens and they meet on
the train and the old man tells him.”

“Don’t, David, don’t. Don’t, I can’t stand it. I can’t, I can’t, I
can’t!”

The last word was drowned in a storm of passionate crying. She flung
herself across the table and wept with a complete abandonment which was
horrible.

David put his hands under her arms and lifted her up.

“Stop it,” he said sharply. “Stop it, Phillida. Lie down on this couch
thing and pull yourself together.”

He put her down gently on the day bed and, taking an eiderdown from the
foot, threw it over her.

“Sleep,” he said. “You’ll want to in a minute, after all that. Sleep,
and for heaven’s sake get a little courage.”

It was considered brutality, expedient in the circumstances. Mrs
Madrigal’s hysteria died away, to give place to quiet weeping. For a
moment the man remained looking down at her. Gradually his own tension
relaxed, the careless smile returned to his eyes, and his wide mouth
twisted with compassion.

“Poor old girl,” he said. “God knows I’m sorry.”

She did not move, and presently he turned away towards the door. Frances
genuinely thought he was unaware of her own presence altogether.
Throughout the whole extraordinary scene he had never once looked in her
direction, but now he thrust out an arm and collected her, holding her
tightly and sweeping her out of the room with him.

“God, what a time to come barging in!” he said as he closed the latch
behind them.

“I’m sorry,” she began diffidently. “I had no idea . . .”

He took his arm from her shoulders and pushed her head gently onto one
side with the flat of his hand.

“Come off it, ducky,” he said. “This isn’t the time. That was ‘Dolly’
Godolphin. Just before you made your entrance the telephone people had
announced that a personal call from him to Phillida was due at any
moment. Hence the tension. God knows where he was ringing from. I forgot
to ask the poor girl. Basra, perhaps, since he’s due in the day after
tomorrow. Let’s go out and have a drink. I need it if you don’t.”

“No, I don’t think I will, not at the moment.”

“Why not? My good girl, you can’t hang about this ghastly house day in
and day out. Let’s get out of this, if only for ten minutes. It’ll mean
that the lad from the police station who follows me about with such
doglike devotion has to air his boots again, but I don’t see why we
should worry about him.”

“Are they following you already?” She spoke involuntarily and he raised
his eyebrows in genuine astonishment.

“Darling, you’re all white and positively tremulous. Isn’t that nice?
You flatter the old man and make him feel silly. Go and put your hat on.
Remember every second saved in the operation means another half inch in
the vine tendrils growing round my heart.”

He was only half laughing at her and there was a suggestion of unusual
colour on his high cheekbones. They were standing on the big dim landing
together, surrounded by the closed doors behind which drama, growing
every hour, was gathering force and momentum. Frances was very much
aware of it all, dark and emotional, mysterious and quite unbearable.

“No,” she said definitely. “No, David, I don’t want to.”

He put both hands on her shoulders and looked into her face. Afterwards
she could never make up her mind if his curious half-smile was
mischievous, derisive or as oddly shy as it seemed at the time.

“Marry me this afternoon?” he said and waited for incredulity to appear
in her eyes.

It came and he laughed, letting her go instantly.

“Why?” Frances was still young enough to put the question in spite of
the tension of the hour.

He grimaced at her. “The iodine-stained hand,” he said. “By the laws of
England no wife can give evidence against her husband. You asked for it,
sweetheart. Now will you come out to lunch?”

It was in the grillroom of the comfortable old Biarritz that the little
incident occurred. David was buttonholed in the foyer by a man who was
obviously a stranger to him, and Frances went on into the restaurant
alone. Bertram, the headwaiter, had found her a table near the
Piccadilly windows, and she had just settled herself when she saw a
familiar face coming down the room towards her at the head of a
procession. It was Margaret Fysher-Sprigge with a covey of her cronies
fresh from one of their eternal committee meetings. She raised her head
and smiled as one does smile at the acquaintance of a lifetime and
caught the full gamut of the changing expressions on the haggard parrot
face. She saw the first formal grin, the wave of startled recognition,
the deep flush of embarrassment and the quick snap of the mouth and
hardening of the eyes as the face set into the stony mask which is
impenetrable. Mrs Sprigge passed on.

It was the first time in her life that Frances had been cut and she knew
suddenly that it would not be the last. She was sitting stiffly at the
table, her ears burning, when David came up. He looked irritated.

“A damned reporter,” he said as he sat down. “I nearly gave him a signed
confession and the commissionaire’s hat. Have they been much of a
nuisance at the house?”

“No. The police see them.”

“Oh, of course. God bless the laws of libel and contempt of court.
What’s the matter with you?”

She told him and he listened with a faintly apprehensive expression
which she had not seen in him before.

“Where is she?” he said at last, looking round. “That old trout in the
wide awake? Never mind about her. Think of her in the nude. There’s
nothing like it,” he said earnestly. “When insulted by a fish think of
it skinned. It takes the edge off anything.”

He was treating her like a child, she saw, and she wondered why she did
not resent it. It was not a very pleasant meal nevertheless. They were
served with suspicious alacrity, and Frances, already self-conscious,
thought she noticed a corresponding embarrassment beneath his determined
good humour. He did not refer to Phillida, and Frances found that she
did not want to broach that particular subject, although it was
certainly one which needed an explanation.

At last, as the coffee arrived hard on the dessert, he pushed a
cigarette case towards her and eyed her under his lashes.

“‘Dolly’ home on Thursday,” he said softly. “There are storms ahead,
Duchess.”

“What do you mean?”

He leant back in his chair and regarded her uncomfortably. His round
eyes were serious and compassionate.

“Damn all the trouts,” he said unexpectedly. “Where were you when
‘Dolly’ was around before?”

“In Switzerland most of the time, finishing my education. I met him of
course.”

“Of course,” he agreed absently. “You won’t have forgotten him. A
colourful bird. I never met a chap with more life or more romance about
him. This sensational return from death is typical. The story itself was
so terrific, and this cap to it supplies just the right touch of the
supernatural to make it like him.”

They were both silent for a while, remembering the story of Godolphin’s
death which had moved the world. It had been the Scott incident over
again. The three white men with a handful of natives had been forced
back by impossible conditions when they were in sighting distance of
their goal, the avalanche-ruined lamasery of Tang Quing, perched
precariously on the side of a peak which had been rendered well-nigh
unclimbable by the disaster. It had been a perilous retreat. Robert was
already ill and the natives were frightened and refractory. The crowning
tragedy had come when Godolphin smashed his shinbone while negotiating a
particularly awkward drop. For two days they had struggled on, carrying
him between them down the narrow, broken track. On the third night they
had camped on the edge of a snow field, and in the darkness Godolphin
had disappeared. There was nowhere for him to have gone save out into
some snow-filled crevasse, and it was a miracle how he could have
dragged himself even so far. The natives lost their heads in
superstitious terror, and finally the two remaining white men, their
shouts unanswered, realised that exploration was suicidal and had been
forced to accept his gesture and to struggle on alone.

David shook his head.

“Astounding,” he said. “A miracle, and so like him. Things are not so
hot, lady. Not at all so hot.”

Frances sat up. The meal and the change of atmosphere had restored her
perspective, and she was exasperated by him.

“Never mind about Godolphin,” she said vehemently. “Surely that’s the
least of the problems! You’ve let Phillida work you into a flap about a
silly sentimental situation which might be tragic and exciting in
ordinary circumstances, but now it’s purely idiotic. Don’t be insane.
Don’t be blind. I know Phillida wasn’t in love with Robert, which is a
mercy, but even she doesn’t seem to realise that somebody’s killed him
and that Lucar has run away, but . . . but the police don’t seem to be
as interested in him as they ought to be.”

She broke off, looking at him, her eyes shining with helpless anxiety.

“Can’t you see, you silly romantic ape, they’re interested in you?”

He sat very still, staring at her with no expression on his face at all,
and it came back to her with a sudden stab that this was how he looked
when she had seen him from the yard . . . no expression at all and
looking down.

When he did speak he made the last remark she could have expected. It
was penetratingly true and quite unpardonable.

“Jealous, ducky?” he enquired.

Frances got up. Afterwards, when she had forgotten the intolerable
nervous strain of the preceding twenty-four hours, she wondered at her
lack of control.

David caught up with her as she crossed the road to turn down into St.
James’s. He did not speak but dropped into step at her side, and they
strode on in bitter, suspicious silence into the gracious quietude of
Sallet Square.

Miss Dorset met the two in the hall, and the pathetic expression on her
face, with the pinched red nose and the watery eyes, broke in upon their
private crisis with relieving urgency. Her story was simple and
disastrous. Meyrick was held up in Brindisi. A case of yellow fever had
developed on the plane, and the entire company, passengers and crew, had
been clapped into quarantine at the Italian port. There was nothing to
be done and no help for it. Meyrick was a prisoner for a fortnight at
least.

“He sounded so upset on the phone.” Disappointment made Miss Dorset’s
tone plaintive. “He’d just seen the news of Mr Robert’s death. I thought
he was going to have a stroke, poor man. What a frightful home-coming
for him!”

Frances looked at her blankly. This extraneous piece of bad luck coming
in the very midst of disaster seemed to finish everything, and she only
realised then how much she had been relying on Meyrick and the return of
his blessed authority. Now she was alone again, rather desperately and
painfully alone.

Miss Dorset’s voice addressing David cut into her thoughts.

“Mrs Madrigal sent down word that you were going to see to everything
with Mr Worthington . . . that’s the solicitor. I’m so glad,” she was
saying earnestly. “I’d have done it, of course, but these things do need
a man. I only realised just now that it would have to be so . . . so
quick. The inquest was adjourned this morning. I don’t think Mr Bridie
even troubled to go. The pathologist rang up when you were out. It’ll
have to be the day after tomorrow, I’m afraid.”

David frowned. Frances saw him standing there, his fine-boned face
animated with distaste and pity.

“Oh, the funeral you mean?” he said. “The day after tomorrow? Really?
That’s rather hurried, isn’t it?”

“Well, no, not really.” Miss Dorset was flushed. “The . . . er . . .
operation has been done and the pathologist suggested, very nicely of
course, that . . .”

“Of course,” he said hurriedly. “I was forgetting. Very well then, I’ll
see to it. I’ll go down and see Worthington now. You’ll want it very
quiet, naturally.”

“Oh, I think so. Old Mrs Ivory must be consulted, but I should think as
quiet as possible. I’ll go and ask her, unless you’d like to, Miss
Frances?”

“No.” Frances spoke with sudden decision. “No, you go, will you? I’ll
come up later. I want a word with Mr Field.”

She waited until the woman was out of sight before she went into the
breakfast room. He followed her, his hands in his pockets and his
shoulders hunched.

“Phillida asked me, you know,” he said. “Someone’s got to do it for the
poor girl. It’s a horrible job.”

It was not that the words sounded like an excuse, and thereby inferred
that she needed one. But the remark jarred on her and she plunged wildly
into the awkward statement she had planned.

“Look here, David,” she said, realising that her cheeks were flushed but
unaware that she looked young and a trifle dishevelled, “this entire
business has got hopelessly out of hand from our point of view. I mean
last week, when you were awfully kind and made the terrific gesture,
neither of us realised what was coming to us. Wouldn’t you like to call
the engagement joke off? I feel I’m dragging you into this mess, and
it’s all rather beastly and shame-making and will be worse later on.”

She was looking at him directly, but after the first word or so he had
not met her eyes but had wandered over to the window and now stood
staring out through the gauze curtains at the square.

She had no idea what she expected of him. Her first impression was that
he was going to laugh at her, but his complete silence was
disconcerting.

“We’re going to be the Piccadilly lepers, I can see that. It’s no good
being paralysingly decent and sticking by us. You get away while you’re
uncontaminated.”

Again he let her words die in the room and then, while the silence still
ticked uncomfortably, shrugged his shoulders.

“I’d like to,” he said simply. “There’s nothing I feel I’d rather do.”

“Well, you go,” she said blankly.

He laughed and came over to her.

“Darling,” he said, “you’re lovely. All elementary and untrodden, just
plain unadulterated female youth. It’s disgustingly rare and painfully
attractive. As a rule this is the point where the old cad packs up.
However, look over here.”

He took her back to the window and pointed to a solitary figure idling
against the railings of the square.

“There he is,” he said, “boots and all. If I leave the house he goes
too. This is a solemn moment. For the first time in his life the old man
is trapped, Duchess.”

His hand was on her shoulder and she felt it tighten briefly.

“If he wasn’t there you’d go,” she said.

“My God, I would,” said David Field.




                              CHAPTER NINE


TO EVERYONE’S ASTONISHMENT Gabrielle put her foot down about the
funeral, and in her decree the great Victorian instinct for social
self-preservation became apparent.

“Quiet?” she demanded, sitting up in her chair as she did in the
afternoons. “At a time like this? Don’t be ridiculous. My dears, we do
not admit that there is any scandal. Our poor wretched relation has
died, and we owe it to ourselves to see him buried in a right way.
Besides, if a few sensation mongers are going to crowd round the house,
for heaven’s sake, give them something to gape at.”

She disapproved strongly of David’s share in the arrangements and told
him so, but since his name had already been mentioned to the solicitors
she agreed that “less talk” would arise from his continuing the work
than from his being superseded in it, and she had him and old
Worthington, together with the undertaker, up in her room for the best
part of an hour.

Some of her decisions were out of date, but Frances, who was appointed
her lieutenant in the business, began to recognise for the first time
the awe-inspiring common sense behind the absurdities of that great
social code of the day before yesterday. She did what she was told and
bought black for herself, Phillida and every servant in the house, and
with Miss Dorset she sat up late into the night sending “intimations”
and instructions for the despatch of flowers to everyone who might
possibly have some claim to be informed.

The gruesome preparations added to the horror of the situation by a
hundred per cent. Plain-clothes men on guard outside the house helped to
bring wreaths into the hall. Startled dress-shop women with a couple of
mannequins apiece were shown into Gabrielle’s bedroom, where she kept
them parading up and down in funereal splendour until she was satisfied
that her granddaughters were to be suitably clad.

Nobody wept. There was a grim purpose in the proceedings and a strange
element of gallantry.

Frances, her arm full of black chiffon, ran into David outside
Phillida’s door on the night before the interment.

David was visibly shaken. He looked younger and more vulnerable and his
eyes were shocked.

“It’s archaic,” he said. “Utterly horrible. My God, if one had liked the
fellow it would have driven one mad. I say, did you know? They’ve picked
up Lucar. It’s in the stop press tonight. He wired from mid-Atlantic or
something equally preposterous. It’s extraordinary the way the police go
about the house, brushing one on the stairs, nodding to one in the
passages, yet never telling anything. Quite reasonable, I suppose, but
disconcerting. Still, who’s going to worry about Lucar or anyone else
while this is going on? With Grandmamma’s macabre pantomime taking place
all round one everything else blurs.”

Frances agreed. She was very weary, and in the last few days the skin
had contracted over her fine bones, leaving her face pointed and
fragile. He looked at her sharply and spoke with a flicker of his old
manner.

“Don’t let it get you,” he said. “It’s wise, you know. She’s absolutely
fantastic, but she’s dead right. It’s sensible. In fact it’s genius. It
leaves all the doors open. People who aren’t sure how the cat’s going to
jump can send flowers and stay away and so save their faces in any
eventuality. If by a miracle the whole stink blows over amicable
relations can be resumed without heartburning . . . if it does.”

The thought seemed to worry him for he glanced at Phillida’s door and
frowned.

“Are you going in to her? I wish you would.” His concern for the other
woman was urgent and personal. Frances imagined that she understood it
and felt again the age-old stab which the Marthas of this world must
always feel when the Marys score their inevitable triumphs.

David was embarrassed. “I’ve been with her all the evening,” he said.
“Do you know, I don’t think she ought to be left.”

“I’ll stay with her.” Her tone betrayed her and he glanced behind him.
She saw him for a moment with the visor up. His eyes were helpless and
his expression unexpectedly supplicant.

“Have a heart, Duchess,” he said.

Afterwards she realised that they came as near to understanding one
another then as ever before, but at that moment the door was flung open
and a haggard relic of Phillida Madrigal appeared on the threshold.

“Whispering,” she said breathlessly. “Whispering outside the door. It
goes on all the time. I can’t stand it. Can’t you come in?”

“My dear, I’m so sorry. I didn’t realise how near we were.” Frances
turned into the room at once. “Look here, Gabrielle says . . .” Her
words died as Phillida took the dress from her arms and threw it across
a chair.

“I don’t think I shall want an evening dress again,” she said abruptly.
“Tell Gabrielle so. Tell Gabrielle . . . tell Gabrielle . . .” Her mouth
trembled out of control and Frances put an arm round her.

“Sit down,” she said firmly. “I’m sorry we stood talking out there.
Never mind about the clothes. Gabrielle’s old, you know, and she’s
fussy. It’s a ghastly business, but we’ve got to get it over somehow.”

“Get it over?” Phillida sat huddled in the chair like an old woman.
Frances glanced at her uneasily.

Outside the wind had risen again. It crept round the house, fitful and
mischievous, a living enemy trying to penetrate the fastness of the
house.

Frances knelt down before the fire and sat back on her heels.

“Whispering,” said Phillida suddenly. “Damned whispering everywhere.
It’s getting on my nerves. I’m growing like Robert, imagining things.
Frances, have you ever wished that you were dead? Have you ever sat and
wished with all your soul that you had the courage to kill yourself?”

“Yes,” said Frances definitely. Her instinct was for caution. “Yes, I
have, but not for long. It passes, you know, that’s the mercy of it. It
doesn’t last.”

“This will.” Phillida was whispering herself, and for the first time in
her life the histrionic effect was not calculated. “You don’t remember
‘Dolly,’ do you?”

Frances glanced at her in exasperation. If Phillida had suddenly decided
to mourn for Robert it might possibly have been bearable, but to find
her preoccupied with a romantic anxiety was distasteful.

“Yes, I do,” she said vaguely.

Phillida shivered. “I remember everything about him. He had such force,
Frances, such incredible force. He’ll be here tomorrow. After the
funeral the bell will ring and there’ll be more whispering and steps
outside and he’ll be here.”

Frances scrambled to her feet.

“You go to bed,” she said. “Take some aspirin and get some sleep.”

Phillida was not listening to her. Her face looked ghastly in the bright
electric light.

“I’m frightened,” she burst out suddenly. “You can’t possibly
understand. Frances, do you think David could have been in love with me
all these years?”

“David?”

“Yes. He was in love with me once. I treated him abominably, I know, but
some men are peculiar when you do that. If he was a suppressed
sentimental type he might . . . And that would be too horrible. What
should I do?”

“Somehow I shouldn’t worry about that.” Frances knew that she sounded
brutal and decided that it could not be helped.

Phillida shook her head.

“It’s more than worrying. You don’t know,” she said. “Suppose David had
known, somehow, that ‘Dolly’ was going to be found? Suppose he’d had
some sort of psychic intimation? Suppose Robert had told him, as he told
me?” The final words seemed to frighten her, for she clapped her hands
over her mouth. “I didn’t say that!” she burst out like a hysterical
child. “I didn’t say that. You didn’t hear me.”

Frances rang the bell.

“I’m going to send for Dorothea and we’re putting you to bed,” she
announced. “You’ll drive yourself out of your mind if you go on like
this.”

“You didn’t believe what I said?” Phillida was frankly hysterical.

“I didn’t even hear it,” said Frances with feeling.

Phillida was still crying when they got her into bed, and old Dorothea
sat by her until she slept, but in the morning she pulled herself
together. She came down comparatively early, a graceful greyhound figure
in her black suit, looked at the flowers and even let Mrs Sanderson weep
to her a little. Frances saw her on that morning standing stiffly by a
tremendous wreath from the employees at 39. Her chin was up and her eyes
were blank. Even then, before she understood, then, while the whole
terrible complication was still unknown to her, she recognised that
blind courage and the picture of it sank deep into her mind.

The funeral itself was one of those unbelievable pieces of picturesque
nightmare which sometimes slip into real life to remind one that there
is nothing so painfully absurd that it cannot happen. To begin with, the
wind had risen almost to gale force. It raced round the square,
tormenting and blinding, irritating the horses and disarranging the
flowers. It was like Gabrielle to insist on horses. No motor hearse in
the world can convey the same macabre dignity which six brown-black
horses, complete with silver buckles and black plumes, can produce with
a single rattle of their well-oiled hoofs. The plumes were the
undertaker’s own contribution. He was an elderly man who recognised a
real Victorian when he met one. The plumes had been resurrected,
therefore, for the first time since the war had given Londoners new and
simpler ideas about interment. Now they stood high in their silver
sconces on top of the hearse and on the nodding heads of the black
horses, looking like bunches of gigantic crepe palm leaves. The wind
leapt on them with a squeal of triumph as they waved before the
breakfast-room windows, and Robert Madrigal waited for the last time for
his friends.

There were few friends. Flowers had arrived by the cartload, but the
fashionable crowd was absent. However, there was no dearth of mourners.
The newspapers had announced the event, and the square was full of
sober, idle people, not one of whom had so much as nodded to the living
Robert but who had come to watch his burying as they would have come to
watch any other procession with a bit of a tale to it. They helped
considerably, of course. Frances realised that when she came back from
the grim, chilly little ceremony and everybody met in the drawing room
to thaw and to drink and forget if they could that vast sad cemetery.

Here the guests were comparatively few. Most of the staff from 39 was
present, of course, as were the usual collection of obscure relatives
who always appear at weddings and funerals like some sort of family
phenomena, while old Worthington had come, and a decayed gentleman who
belonged to Robert’s club and had owed him money. But for the rest there
were only telegrams and last-minute flowers.

The only uninvited guests in the house were the police. They hung about
shamefully, like bailiffs, secretly a trifle overawed. The expedition
itself had been preposterous. Since Robert had no relatives nearer than
South Africa a Victorian stoicism had decreed that his widow should
travel in the first limousine accompanied by a startled old nephew of
Gabrielle’s own as her escort.

Frances herself, with David in his capacity as her fiancé, had gone
next, and behind them rode Miss Dorset, supported by the head of the
clerical department from the gallery.

It had been a brave show, as formal and courageous as Gabrielle herself.
Mrs Ivory’s ultimate act of gallantry was her personal appearance in the
drawing room. She was waiting for them when they came in, enthroned in
the largest of the wing chairs with Dorothea, like a sentinel, behind
her.

Lawrence’s full-length portrait of Philip Ivory as a young man smiled
down at her, and the light from the lustres which had seen her in her
glory picked up the folds of her moiré skirt. As a spectacle she took a
lot of beating, and the unhappy company, in whose mind the words
“mystery,” “something queer,” “scandal,” “murder,” were taking larger
and larger space, turned to her with admiration and relief.

Yet it was not easy. Everyone in the room felt the same sense of
responsibility, the same sensation of herding together in the face of
disaster, while beneath this there was that other feeling, the sneaking
sensationalism which murmurs, “This may be an unforgettable experience.
Who knows, I may be rubbing shoulders with a murderer at his victim’s
funeral.”

Frances was with Gabrielle when Norris came in. The old lady had both
her granddaughters near her. Phillida, looking as if she were on the
verge of collapse, sat in a chair only a trifle smaller than Mrs Ivory’s
own, while Frances stood on the other side. She realised that they must
make a fantastic little group and was relieved when David came up behind
her.

“Just like the family album. You’ve no idea,” he murmured. “Want a
drink?”

“A small prussic acid, please.” She let the flippancy escape her without
taking her eyes from the door. Norris was worming his way towards them.
He looked anxious.

He spoke very quietly and yet everyone seemed to hear him. Godolphin.
The name fled round the room as audibly as if he had screamed it aloud,
and it snatched attention from the one all-absorbing but unfortunately
unmentionable topic which was concerning the company. They pounced on
it, and the general interest flared.

Godolphin, who had crept out on a ledge of icebound rock to die rather
than jeopardise the chances of his companions’ safety? Godolphin, who
had been discovered on the point of death by a party of monks and
carried up by them to a fortress which hitherto had been no more than a
legend? Godolphin, who had been a prisoner for close to four years, to
escape at last with a pilgrim train? Here was romance; here was warmth;
here was colour!

Frances caught a glimpse of David’s grey face and saw his eyes turn to
Phillida, but she was hidden in the depths of her chair, and even then
the younger girl had no inkling of the great obvious fact which rose up
so monstrously before her eyes that it escaped her altogether.

Norris went out again, and this time the crowd made a path and stood
looking at the tall door covered by the silk portiere curtain with the
Chinese panel. Memory is an unaccountable possession, and Frances, who
until that moment had had only a hazy impression of the explorer, now
received a clear vision of him as she had seen him last five years
before. He had been a gaunt whirlwind of a man, not particularly tall
but thick-boned and sturdy, with a shock of very black hair standing on
end above an eagle nose and narrow eyes. She looked for him with
interest when Norris reappeared, stepping back to hold the door open.

There was a long pause, and then into the room came a small, withered,
elderly man, walking with a stick.

It was not altogether an anticlimax. Many people present remembered
Godolphin before his last trip, and David’s single muttered expletive
expressed their reaction.

Godolphin came uncertainly down the room towards them, and their first
impression receded a little. It _was_ Godolphin. The much-photographed
face was recognisable under the harsh yellow skin, but the hair was
white and close cropped and he stooped with the weakness of a man who
has undergone a great physical hardship.

He came up to Gabrielle and bent over her hand with a touch of his old
bombast.

“Forgive me,” he said gently in the rather high, metallic voice which
Frances had forgotten. “I didn’t know. Your man told me the news on the
doorstep. I’m just off the plane. I haven’t seen a paper or spoken to a
soul. I came straight to Phillida, naturally.”

Fortunately he was speaking softly, and the crowd, remembering its
manners, made hasty conversation. Only the old woman and the four who
surrounded her heard him clearly.

Gabrielle looked up.

“Naturally?” she enquired abruptly. “Why ‘naturally,’ Mr Godolphin?”

He turned to Phillida, and the movement of his outstretched hand had a
quality of finality and home-coming about it.

“It’s still a secret, is it, my dear?” he said gently.

Phillida whimpered. There was no other word for that dreadful animalic
little sound. She was straining back in her chair as if she would force
herself into the upholstery.

A bewildering thought struck Frances and she looked at Gabrielle. The
old woman was rigid, her black eyes contracted into slits of startling
intelligence. It was only then that the youngest Ivory recognised the
truth, and with it the appalling explanation of a dozen mysteries of the
past unbearable week. The facts came thundering into her mind with the
force of revelation. Phillida had married him. Phillida must have
married Godolphin before the Tibetan expedition, and now, as he stood
smiling before them, Godolphin knew no more about Robert than that he
was dead.




                              CHAPTER TEN


THE DRAWING ROOM looked despoiled as rooms do when a crowd has recently
departed from them.

Outside the wind was at its fidgety worst, and to Frances at least the
memory of those days was ever afterwards accompanied by the mischievous
music of that irritating, ill-tempered breeze.

The old Gabrielle sat huddled in her chair by the graceful fireplace
with the fluted columns. She looked so old that it seemed incredible
that there should still be sufficient blood in her body to feed the
intricate experienced brain behind her shrewd eyes.

David leant against the mantelpiece, watching her, with Frances at his
feet on the hearthrug. She sat with her knees drawn under her, her black
dress making her look younger than ever in spite of the new maturity
which was etching itself upon her face.

The fourth member of the party remained expressionless. Dorothea stood
behind her mistress like a soldier behind his king.

Phillida and Godolphin had been alone in the breakfast room for forty
minutes now. The walls were thick and no sound had escaped to give the
little gathering waiting in the drawing room any indication of the way
in which that grimly dramatic interview progressed.

Everyone deferred to Gabrielle. She had insisted that they stay beside
her, and if it was obvious that she was keeping them under her eye so
that they should not talk too much among themselves it was also clear
that she was controlling the situation by a terrific effort of will
power alone. Meanwhile the silence was nerve-racking.

David took out his cigarette case, looked at it and put it back again.
Gabrielle eyed him.

“You knew about this,” she said. It was not a question, and he did not
deny it.

“Yes,” he said. “Yes, I did. I was a witness at the wedding. It was when
I was over here last time, about four years ago. I’d been seeing
Phillida quite a lot, as you may remember.” He looked down at Frances.
“You were at school,” he said.

Gabrielle shut her lips tightly, but if he noticed the gesture he
ignored it and went on speaking, half to her and half to Frances.

“Phillida phoned me one day and told me she was getting married, but
that it was to be all done in secret. ‘Dolly’ was broke, or something
equally undesirable. She asked me if I’d go along and support them at
the ordeal. I did. I was the only friend of bride or groom at the
Registry Office, and I signed my name and wished ’em luck. I went back
to the States a couple of days later and the next I heard of Godolphin
was that he had died out in the wilds on this expedition. I gathered
from the press accounts that there’d been no mention of his marriage so
I took it that the whole affair was washed out. Then when I came back a
few weeks ago I found that Phillida had married Robert and naturally I
held my tongue because it was her affair and not mine. However, last
week, when the whole situation blew sky-high, I did come to see her and
I offered her my heartfelt advice, which was to get hold of ‘Dolly’
quickly and break the news as gently as possible before he got back and
someone else told him. Unfortunately, when she did have an opportunity
on the transcontinental phone she funked it. One can’t really blame the
poor girl, but it was a pity. It would have saved this ghastly
tragicomedy this afternoon anyway.”

There was silence again after he had spoken. Gabrielle rocked herself to
and fro, her eyes narrowed and her mouth twisting to fit unuttered
words. Frances stared into the fire. David’s laconic account of the
secret wedding had not deceived her. During the last few days she had
learnt enough about love and enough about people to clothe that skeleton
story. She understood now why he had been so cautious when she had
coupled Phillida and Godolphin in her first conversation with him in the
Café Suprême, and she recognised the reason for his faint air of
responsibility where Phillida was concerned. Behind his lazy voice she
had caught a glimpse of the cruel if childish gesture of the two
adventurers when they had decided to honour the unsuccessful boy friend
with their secret. No doubt his presence had lent the occasion just the
extra touch of piquancy so dear to their fey postwar generation. It must
all have been very young and dramatic and for David unhappy and
humiliating if also educational.

She looked up at him and found him watching her, half amused by his own
embarrassment. He looked away at once.

“It’s a fine old mess now, anyway,” he said. “Pelion piled on Ossa.
Where do we go from here?”

“She didn’t ought to be worried.” The passionate ungrammatical statement
bursting from Dorothea startled everybody.

Gabrielle laughed. It was the first sound of the kind that the house had
heard for a week, and the room itself seemed to lighten.

“How true,” she said. “That’s very kind of you, Dorothea. Mr Field, I
never in my life allowed anyone to smoke in this room, but now you may
light a cigarette.”

David did not smile but he thanked her and took out his case.

The nerve-racking waiting continued. The entire house seemed to be
listening.

“He’ll have to see reason,” said Frances suddenly. “It’s an impossible
business, and Godolphin will have to be reasonable. After all, it’s
quite clear how the thing happened.”

“Hush.” Gabrielle raised a small yellow hand. “Listen, they’re coming.”

They blinked at her. Her uncannily acute hearing in this house which she
knew so well was always astonishing. It was almost a sixth sense with
her, depending on a complicated system of old memories and instincts
rather than an actual sound.

She was right, of course. Almost immediately the inner door which
connected the breakfast room with the eastern end of the drawing room
jarred as the handle turned vigorously and Godolphin appeared. He looked
back over his shoulder.

“Come on,” he said. “They’re all here.”

He held the door wide open but there was no sign of Phillida, and
presently he disappeared again, to return a moment or so later leading
her by the hand. They made an extraordinary pair coming across the
rose-pink Chinese carpet together. Godolphin had lost much of the
withered, broken appearance which had so shocked them on his first
arrival. Whatever else the interview had done it had certainly
stimulated him. There was animation in his movements now, and a great
wave of nervous energy swept into the room with him, reminding them that
he was still a personality. It occurred to Frances for the first time
that he might be very angry.

Phillida drooped. She looked utterly exhausted. David pulled up a chair
for her, and Godolphin lowered her into it. His manner was possessive
and authoritative, and the old Gabrielle, who was watching him with lynx
eyes, let her hands flutter in her lap.

“Well?” she said. It was a grim word, so much better than any
conventional condolence or excuse, and Godolphin, who had had his back
to her, turned with quick interest as he recognised a personality.

“It’s ghastly,” he said, his thin high voice snapping out the words.
“Horrible. A great shock for you all. . . . Not a comforting story for
me. There’s only one thing to be done. I’ve been explaining that to my
wife. We must all pull together, get this mystery cleared up and then
she and I must start afresh.”

He made an alarmingly important figure standing before them, his dried
flesh clinging to his bones and his whipcord face so thin that the
double line of his jaw stuck out in high relief. He was leaning heavily
on his stick.

“Oh, but how sensible.” The old Gabrielle used an ingratiating tone
which none of them had heard from her before. “You’re quite right, of
course, Mr Godolphin. The police must be left to make their enquiry into
Robert’s death, and any mystery there must be settled utterly and beyond
question before any other . . . adjustment can be considered. Until that
is done you will keep away from Phillida and from this house, naturally.
What will you do? Go abroad again?”

“No, dear lady,” he said. “I’ve just spent two years in a filthy
lamasery jail, or correction cell as they are pleased to call it,
thinking of my home and my wife, and believe me I’m not going to lose
either of them again.”

His final words clattered in the silent room, and the old woman
stiffened visibly.

“I see,” she said quietly. “And so what do you suggest?”

“That we get on with the work at once and see the whole hopeless mess
settled. That’s the only thing to do. The entire affair must be taken in
hand at once and, since it affects me principally, I’ll do it myself.”

Phillida gripped the arms of her chair and struggled to control her
voice.

“He doesn’t understand,” she said helplessly. “He wants to stay in the
house.”

“That, of course, is impossible.” Gabrielle spoke flatly and without
intonation in her brittle voice.

“I don’t think so.” Godolphin was equally decisive. “You’re all
approaching this thing from the wrong angle. Here you are, a houseful of
women completely at the mercy of the police. Your solicitor appears to
be worse than useless. Field can’t do much because he has no authority
and isn’t even a permanent resident in the country. You must have
somebody to manage things. There’s absolutely no reason why I shouldn’t
stay here as a guest and do what I can to clear things up. After all, I
bring a fresh mind to it and I’m not hampered by the silly conventional
mind tracks of this so-called civilised country.”

“But, my dear chap”—even David was forced to protest—“use your
imagination. However unpleasant the realisation is, don’t ignore what
has happened. Phillida married Robert in all good faith, and he, poor
chap, is only barely in his grave.”

Godolphin turned on him. He was trembling and the veins at the sides of
his forehead were prominent.

“I do realise that,” he said. “My God, that’s the one thing I do
realise.”

It was the first open sign of anger which he had revealed and it sent a
thrill of apprehension through each of them. Godolphin laughed abruptly.

“I’m sorry,” he said, “but you forget. Where I’ve been rotting slowly
out of existence the niceties have been absent. I’ve come back with a
clear mind. I don’t care if a thing’s good form or even if it’s socially
dangerous. I want to take Phillida away. She’s my wife, remember, not
Robert’s, and since she won’t come away with me until this blasted
mystery’s cleared up then I’ll clear up the mystery, and no one on God’s
earth shall get in my way. Is that plain enough?”

Nobody spoke. Phillida was crying openly and her shuddering breath was
the only sound in the big room.

Godolphin confronted Gabrielle.

“If you won’t have me in the house, Mrs Ivory,” he said, “I’ll stay in
the nearest hotel, but if you’ve any sense you’ll use me, not frustrate
me.”

The old woman considered him, her bright eyes frankly speculative.

“Thank you for your offer,” she said with surprising meekness. “Yes, Mr
Godolphin, we shall be very pleased if you will consider yourself my
son’s guest for a few days.” She paused and smiled at him. “You will
behave like a guest, of course?”

For an instant they regarded each other steadily, both of them
adventurers in their way, and presently he laughed.

“You’re very wise,” he said. “Yes, I’ll behave.”

The old Gabrielle sighed, a sound of resignation.

“I am very tired,” she remarked and went on talking in a detached
fashion. “No, Dorothea, I’ll come presently but not yet. First of all
there is something I have to say to all of you. First of all I am an old
woman. I am so old that half the time my mind wanders abominably, but
usually in the evenings it becomes very clear, and just at this
particular time I think I may be seeing things more vividly than any of
you, because I have one great advantage. I am apart. My life is at its
end. I do not know if you realise it, but although some of you are my
grandchildren you are all strangers to me. You are not only out of my
generation but out of my span.”

She was leaning back, infinitely frail in a barricade of stiff black
silk. Her hands were folded placidly and if her performance had an
ulterior motive, as Frances, who had seen one or two of them, was
inclined to suspect, it was certainly tremendously impressive.

“As I see it you have all developed one great weakness during the past
hour,” she remarked, a hint of complacency in her tinkling voice. “You
have all got a secret now which somehow or other you must keep from the
police. Before this afternoon Phillida had that secret and so had Mr
Field. Now Frances knows it and so does Dorothea, and I know it.”

She paused and looked at Godolphin, who was staring at her
incredulously.

“And so do you,” she said. “Now, when the police talk to you you must
all be very careful. The standard of intelligence among the police is
far higher than I had supposed.” There was a world of unconscious
snobbery in the final observation, and they realised that she had
probably never spoken to a policeman before in her life.

“Do you know, I don’t think it matters.” Godolphin made the announcement
with the force and recklessness which had been noticeable in him ever
since his interview with Phillida. “The police are sensible people. They
want to know the truth and so do we. We must work with them; not against
them. They’ll want to know the facts of this marriage mix-up, and I
don’t see why they shouldn’t have them. If we hadn’t kept our marriage a
secret this wretched complication would never have cropped up. My death
would have to have been proved, or Phillida would have to have waited
for seven years or whatever the period is before she could have presumed
it. As far as I can find out from Phillida poor old Robert must have
died last Monday week, just about the time when I was lying under a mass
of stinking goatskins, being smuggled over the border in a mule train.
As Robert died I came to life. Phillida never had two husbands at once,
so where’s the immorality? They won’t prosecute her for bigamy. While
she was married to Robert I _was_ dead to all practical purposes. The
police are reasonable, surely.”

“Oh no, ‘Dolly,’ no. Don’t tell.” They had half forgotten Phillida, and
her panic-stricken appeal startled them. “You don’t know. You don’t
understand. Robert was queer before he died, and sort of psychic. I used
to think he’d guessed about you and me. For the last year he’d talked
about you to all sorts of people. He talked to you about him, didn’t he,
David?”

“To me?” David seemed surprised, “No,” he said cautiously. “No, I don’t
think he did.”

“Oh well, he did to me. Sometimes I was sure he knew about the marriage.
This last six months has been hell, absolute hell.”

Old Mrs Ivory refolded her hands and her eyes rested on Godolphin’s
face.

“There, you see,” she said placidly. “Phillida should not be allowed to
talk, should she?”

“Why not?” Godolphin was vigorously rational. “Anyone can see what
happened there. Robert happened to mention my name by chance one day and
that started up the poor girl’s guilty conscience. Look at her, poor
darling. She’s a mass of hysteria now and must have been for months.”

Gabrielle beckoned Dorothea.

“You can take me up now,” she said and added, “the police are so
unimaginative, my dear man. That’s why you must be so careful. Given
that story they might almost consider that poor Phillida had a motive,
mightn’t they?”




                             CHAPTER ELEVEN


IT WAS RAINING when Miss Dorset took up the squalling telephone from
among the piles of scattered papers on her desk. It had been raining for
the best part of a week and the square was cold and sodden.

She approached the instrument cautiously. Just lately some of the calls
had not been pleasant experiences.

“Hello,” she said briskly. “Hello. Who? Oh yes, Miss Dorset speaking.
Yes, of course I remember you. You’re Mr Lucar’s man, aren’t you? I’m
afraid I haven’t any news for you yet. I should just carry on as I told
you.”

“Wait a minute, miss. I’ve got a bit of news for you. I’ve ’eard from my
guv’nor.”

“Have you?” Her surprise escaped her and he laughed contentedly.

“I know. It took me back a bit, an’ that’s a fact. I’d got it well in my
’ead that ’e’d given me the walkout. Milk’s not paid, nor papers, nor my
wages. I was certain I’d said good-bye to that lot, which was why I got
on to your firm. They employed ’im, I thought, so per’aps they’d see to
me.”

“Yes, yes, so you said. You’ve heard from him, you say?”

“I ’ave. A wire from a ship. Listen. ‘Expect me sleep flat tonight,
Lucar.’” There was a faint sardonic chuckle. “Sure of ’isself, ain’t
’e?”

“He _is_! I mean, of course.” Miss Dorset floundered and recovered
herself. “Oh, well then, if he’s coming back you’re all right, aren’t
you? Thank you for telling me.”

“Not at all.” The voice was cocky. “I thought you’d like to know. I
never thought ’e done it. I told you. I say, you there?”

“Yes. Thank you very much for ringing. Good-bye.”

Miss Dorset replaced the receiver and sat looking in front of her with
introspective eyes. She took up an envelope from the pile to her left
and slit the cheap paper open. After a glance at the opening sentence
she pitched the lightly scribbled page into the basket, unread. Her hand
wavered and she took up the telephone and dialled 38’s number. She got
Frances immediately.

“Hello. Oh, it’s you, Miss Dorset?” The disappointment was well
suppressed. “How are you getting on? Are there many of them?”

“A few. I thought I’d better go through them myself. I really didn’t
know there were so many lunatics at large. It’s having an address in the
reference books, I suppose. If they’d sign their names it wouldn’t be so
bad. There are one or two genuine personal letters for Mrs Madrigal, by
the way. I’ll send those over.”

“It’s abominable, isn’t it?” Frances’ voice was savage over the wire.
“Don’t people realise they can’t know the truth just by reading a few
beastly newspapers? All the letters are for Phillida, are they?”

“Yes, most of them.”

“Any for me?”

“One or two.” Miss Dorset eyed the solid heap on the right-hand side of
the desk and hoped she might be forgiven.

“What do they say?”

“Oh, nothing really. Just abuse. It’s purely pathological. I asked
Inspector Bridie and he says it always happens.”

Frances laughed unnaturally. “I like him,” she said, “or at least I
would if I wasn’t so afraid of him.”

“Afraid?”

“Oh, not seriously. I mean it’s all practically settled now, isn’t it?
Or it will be as soon as they bring Lucar back, won’t it?”

“I should think so, my dear.” Long years of discretion taught her voice
just the right degree of noncommittal cheerfulness. “One or two of these
anonymous letters to Mrs Madrigal mention Mr Godolphin. I don’t like to
say anything to her myself, but people do remember that they were once
engaged and it does give them such a handle. He’s still determined to
stay in the house, is he?”

“I’m afraid he is. He works like a fiend. It’s like having a policeman
present at every meal.”

Miss Dorset coughed.

“That kind of person is very trying but they’re also very useful
sometimes,” she said.

“Yes, I know.”

There was a brief pause.

“I haven’t seen Mr Field for a day or two.” In her effort to make the
question casual it sounded to Miss Dorset herself that she underlined it
unmercifully.

“No,” said Frances. “No. Nor have I. You’ll send the genuine letters
over then, will you?”

“Yes, I will. Good-bye. Is Mrs Ivory all right?”

“Amazingly well. Good-bye.”

Ten minutes later the phone in the breakfast room at 38 tinkled again,
but when Frances leapt on it she was just in time to hear the soft click
on the wire which meant that someone else in the house had also expected
a call, and Phillida’s nervous voice said urgently:

“Is that Doctor Smith now? This is Mrs Madrigal. Put me through. Put me
through, please. Put me through.”

Frances hung up, and across the city a nurse grimaced as she handed the
instrument to a thin man with a tired face.

“No,” he said gently after the phone had crackled at him for a full
minute. “We threshed all this out yesterday. Go to bed and stay there
with a book. I’ll come and see you about four o’clock, but please don’t
ask me to do the impossible.”

“Why not?” Phillida was unusually decisive. “It wouldn’t matter. Really
it wouldn’t matter. I _was_ in my room all that day. I didn’t go down
except once when old Mrs Ivory came over in the afternoon. Why shouldn’t
you say I couldn’t move?”

“Because it’s not true.”

“Does that matter so much?”

“Do you expect me to answer that question?”

“No. No. I don’t know. I’m sorry. I’m mad. I’m ill. I don’t know what
I’m doing. You won’t tell anyone I asked you?”

“I’m not unprofessional as a rule.”

“I know you’re not. I didn’t mean that. Come and see me.”

“Would you like to go into a nursing home?”

“I would. Oh, I would! Do you think it would look as though I were
running away? No, I’d better not. No.”

“I’ll come and see you this afternoon. Good-bye.”

“And yet I don’t believe it,” he continued to the nurse as she hung up
for him. “That woman’s a neurasthenic, not a maniac. If she killed her
husband I’ll eat my brass plate and go and keep chickens.”

“I wonder you don’t keep away from her all the same,” said the nurse
practically. “No one, not even a man with your reputation, can afford to
be mixed up in that sort of thing.”

“You’re horribly right,” he agreed gloomily, “but I’m sorry for her. You
don’t know her, do you? She’s got a certain charm.”

At this precise moment Detective Sergeant Randall of the N Division was
standing in a public telephone booth on a dreary wind-swept railway
station talking to Divisional Detective Inspector Bridie.

“Got him, sir,” he reported briefly.

“Ye have, have ye? Cholly good. What’s he like?”

“Cocky, sir.”

“Ah, he is? I thought that would be likely. Bring him along.”

“Right, sir. The train goes in seven minutes. We’ll be with you before
five.”

The Orkney man grunted and hung up. Then he took up the house phone and
got through to Inspector Withers, a placid, painstaking man in whom he
had great faith.

“Any results?” he enquired, cocking his head on one side at the
mouthpiece.

“A blank . . . sir.” Withers added the courtesy as an afterthought. The
two men were friends but he was in a bad temper. “I’ve been through
every perishing report, forty-seven of ’em. No nigger for miles. Not a
soul in or about those two houses on the night in question saw hide or
hair of a nigger except those two hysterical women.”

Bridie sniffed. “Mrs Sanderson may be an emotional pairson,” he
conceded, “and mebbe the girl Molly is not par-rticularly strong in the
heid, but when those two women say they saw a nigger walk past the
kitchen window into the yar-rd chust before dusk that day I was inclined
to believe them.”

Withers was still polite but it was with an effort. “I’m sorry, but a
more cock-eyed tale I never laid ears to. Why didn’t they raise cain at
the time?”

“Because the yar-rd was in chuxtaposition to the picture gallery next
door, and strange pairsons were forever walking down there.”

“I see. Well, if that’s so why wasn’t this blinking nigger likely to be
one of the . . . er . . . strange pairsons with a right to be there?
Fetching a packing case or something. Why bother about him?”

“Because he had no right to be there. No one knew of him. Ye say so
yourself, man.”

Withers remained unimpressed. “I’ll go on following it up, of course,”
he said.

“That’s right,” agreed Bridie with exasperating satisfaction.

“Any luck in your other direction?” The inspector could not restrain the
gentle dig and Bridie smiled affectionately at the instrument.

“I’m keeping an eye on the lad,” he said comfortably. “He’s stayin’ away
from the hoose and amusin’ himself, but we’ll let him bide for an hour
or two. He’s costing the country a mint in shoe leather but it can’t be
helped.” With which cryptic announcement he hung up.

Meanwhile in another room in the same building a charge sergeant was
being severe over the telephone.

“I can’t help who you are, sir,” he was saying, “but you’ve been on the
chief twice today already and unless you have some new information, in
which case you can report it to me first, I can’t put you through to him
again. Everything is being done, you can rest assured of that.”

“That’s all very well, but is it?” Godolphin did not sound amused. “It’s
over a fortnight now, you know, and the inquest will be resumed in less
than six days.”

“We know that, sir. We’re working on the case.” The sergeant listened
attentively and sighed as he heard the explorer hang up. “He thinks he’s
doing his duty, you know,” he remarked tolerantly to the constable who
leant against the desk.

At three in the afternoon Miss Frances Ivory very hurriedly, and with a
palpably fictitious explanation ready on her lips, rang up the studio
flat in St. John’s Wood which Pendlebury, the R.A., had let to David
Field for the winter. She stood listening to the bell ringing and
ringing in the empty room for a long time after she realised that had
anyone been there he must have answered it, and she returned to the
deserted drawing room, mingled irritation and relief tempering the
breathless feeling of despair which had brought her to much weakness.

A little later in the day, when Phillida was with her doctor, when
Frances was still hovering near the telephone, when Bridie was reading
the second report of the day on David Field’s itinerary, when Miss
Dorset was burning a basketful of scurrilous filth in the basement
furnace at the gallery, when Godolphin was preparing his third list of
questions for Norris to answer and when Henry Lucar, his red hair
blazing above his pallid face, was riding in a London-bound train with
Sergeants Randall and Betts in attendance, a very queer conversation
passed over the wires between one small house in Tooting and another on
the far side of London in Cricklewood.

“I saw her, Mum,” said a young voice in Tooting.

“What did she say?” The older voice in Cricklewood was nervous.

“She said she couldn’t. She knew you was right but she couldn’t. She
can’t leave her lady since she’s so old. She might die without her, she
said.”

“I dare say she would, but that can’t be helped when there’s one’s self
to think of. I do think she might think of her relations and what people
say. Did you tell her it wasn’t very nice for her own sister, living a
respectable life, to be pointed out as a person connected with the
murder? Did you tell her that?”

“I told her, Mum.”

“And still she said she couldn’t leave?”

“That’s what she said.”

“Did you tell her Dad and I would have her here if we had to?”

“Yes, Mum, I told her, but she wouldn’t come.”

“She is aggravating. She always was. Obstinate as a pig.”

There was a pause and then the same voice went on again, lowered this
time.

“Did she say anything about it?”

“No, nothing, except that she didn’t know ’oo’d done it.”

“Oh.” The old voice was disappointed. “Dad feels we ought to hear as
soon as anybody.”

“Yes.” The younger voice sounded preoccupied and presently became
impulsive. “Mum? I say, I think she’s mixed up in it.”

“Oh. Oh, my God. Never let your father hear that. What did she say? She
didn’t say she’d done it?”

“No, of course not. She didn’t say nothing reely. I only felt she knew
something. She knows something and isn’t saying. I come away . . .”

The last relevant telephone call of the day was put through at
six-thirty in the evening. David Field rang 38 Sallet Square. Frances
answered him and was so relieved to hear him at last that her own voice
betrayed her.

“Hello, Duchess, is that you?” He sounded irritatingly normal. “How are
you?”

“All right.”

“Are you? Is that the truth or are you being the gallant little woman?”

“I’m being gallant.”

He laughed with spontaneous pleasure.

“Are you, darling? I bet you are. Will you come out and eat with me
tonight? Yes, I know, but wait a moment. I particularly want you to
come, and I’ll choose a place where the chances are that we shan’t meet
anyone who has ever seen us before.”

“I don’t want to come,” she said, adding casually, “can’t you take
somebody else?”

“Of course I can. I rather thought we ought to meet, though. I haven’t
been round for a day or so, and a gossip writer phoned me this morning
to ask if our engagement was still on.”

“Oh. What did you say?”

“Me? I was very upstage. Wasn’t that right? I said indeed it was and if
I read anything to the contrary in his perishing column I should be
happy to sue him or kick his seat for him, whichever he preferred. Put
on a nice blue dress and I’ll fetch you at seven-thirty.”

“Gabrielle says we’re all to wear black for a month.”

“Does she indeed? I say, I like her. Old Grandmamma Intestinal
Fortitude, isn’t she? Have you got a mourning dance garment?”

“Yes.”

“Fine. Seven-thirty then. Hold your head up. By the way, I shall come in
a humble cab. No Daimlers.”

“Why haven’t you been round?”

“Oh, funk, you know,” he said and rang off, leaving her wondering.




                             CHAPTER TWELVE


THE MARBLE HALL was a large comfortable night club and restaurant,
designed for those wary birds, the intelligentsia of the smart set, and
had actually succeeded in capturing a great many of them. It was
outrageously expensive, comparatively exclusive, and it was also, as
somebody said of it on the opening night, pleasant without being in any
way good. The _décor_ was slavishly of the nineties, and one of its
great features was the row of little ornamental boxes built in round the
unusually narrow balcony where diners could indulge in a little
ostentatious discretion. The looped red curtains drawn well back
contrived to defeat their avowed object by calling attention to those
who sat framed in them, so everyone was content and the original joke
preserved.

The ground-floor tables, huddled round the tiny dancing ring, were
crowded when Frances came in with David, but one was reserved for them,
and they sat down in the shadow of a ridiculous palm.

He watched her for a minute or two, his eyes narrowed professionally.

“All Degas,” he said. “Lovely. I like the dress. It’s just right in this
studied pretentiousness. Don’t look round like a hunted fawn or
something. That’s carrying the jest too far. Don’t worry. There’s not a
soul in this room who can spare a second to recognise anyone but
themselves. That’s the strength of this age. Individualism.”

It was always like this, she reflected. She met him in a painful
overwrought state of nerves, suspicion and self-consciousness, and in
five minutes he soothed and bullied her into easy friendliness with a
gentle if far too experienced hand. He had turned from her and was
looking up at the boxes with interest, so that she had plenty of time to
see that he was thinner and to notice the underlying nervous strength
which kept his manner so light and controlled. He was an odd person.

They had barely finished the meal when the message came. David took the
note from the waiter’s tray, and the corners of his wide mouth turned
down as he read it.

“Spotted,” he remarked. “Come on, lady. This is where you hold my hand.”

“What is it? What’s happened?”

“Hey . . .” He paused in the act of rising to peer at her. “Keep your
hands on the wheel. I didn’t know you were going like this. It’s all
right. We’re only going to see Uncle Adolphus having a sleuth’s night
out.”

He took her by the elbow, and they followed the waiter up the grand
staircase and down the narrow mirror-lined corridor behind the dining
booths. The man knocked and held a door open for them.

Their first impression was of mellowness and candlelight. The curtains
had been partially drawn, and the small dining table set far back in the
box. Their principal emotion, however, was frank old-fashioned
consternation. “Dolly” Godolphin, looking very spruce and
self-important, had risen to greet them, but opposite him, sitting well
back and dressed in a dark frock, but nevertheless there in public not
ten days after the disaster, was Phillida herself. David looked from one
to the other of them. He was white and his jaw had set.

“You _blithering_ fools,” he said, the old-fashioned expletive giving
the remark an emphasis which no stronger word could have done.

“Not at all.” Godolphin was brisk and even cheerful. “Sit down, will
you? We’ve something to put to you. We were just discussing it when I
happened to see you. Very queer you should have decided to come to just
this one restaurant, isn’t it?”

“I don’t think it is. I probably came here for the same reason as you
did. It’s not overcrowded with our particular set. I’m sorry to speak
crudely to you two, but upon my Sam I think you’re both mad.”

“Sit down.” Godolphin placed a chair for Frances next to Phillida. The
definite artificiality in his manner was very noticeable, and it
suddenly occurred to her that he was behaving like the amateur detective
in a play. The same idea seemed to have occurred to David for he looked
at him blankly.

“This is damned serious,” he said at last. “You’re out of touch with
civilisation still, ‘Dolly.’ It’s not what people think that matters,
old boy. I don’t believe that any more than you do. It’s what the police
may take it into their heads to consider. They’ve followed you both
here, you know. They’re bound to have. They’ve had a man tailing me from
the beginning.”

Godolphin cast an eloquent glance at Phillida and resumed his seat.

“A cigarette?” he suggested.

Frances could have screamed at him. He had come back into the midst of
their tragedy and was using it to gratify some idiotic theatrical sense
of his own. She glanced at her half sister to see how she was taking it
and was side-tracked by something else.

Phillida was wearing the chiffon which she had thrown so carelessly on
one side on the night before the funeral. The smoky drapery mingled with
the shadows and was hidden, but on her corsage glittered an enormous
spray of diamonds. Frances gaped at it. Phillida had a good many jewels,
but a staggering effort of this sort was not a thing one brought out
lightly from a drawer in the dressing-table or even from a safe in the
wall. It seemed incredible that she should never have seen it before.

David followed her eyes.

“That’s rather sensational,” he said, leaning forward. “Is it new?”

Phillida did not speak but indicated Godolphin helplessly.

David sat back. “Yes, well, you _are_ nuts,” he said. “You’ll get the
girl arrested, ‘Dolly.’ Look here, this isn’t funny any more. I know you
and I, and Phillida too, for that matter, all belong to the gang who
grew up just after the war and found the place in such a mess that
everything had to be a roaring joke, but times have changed. We’re old.
We’re grown up. You can’t go assing along like this as though we were
still back in the nineteen twenties. It’s disgusting as well as being
dangerous.”

Godolphin cleared his throat deliberately. He was still smiling faintly.

“I was going to talk to you tomorrow,” he said, “but we can have it out
here better than anywhere else. Frances ought to be in it too. I’ve been
going into this thing very thoroughly. I warned you that I should, and
I’ve come to some very interesting conclusions. Now listen to me, Field.
This is straight. You can be absolutely frank with us. We’re none of us
against you. There’s nothing we won’t do for you, but we must have the
thing settled. Did you kill Robert?”

David sat perfectly still, looking at them. They could see his face had
grown hard and his round dark eyes hot with some emotion which was not
defined.

“My dear chap,” he said at last.

“That’s not an answer.”

David rose. Godolphin’s stick lay against his chair and he indicated it.

“When you’re fit enough to do without that I’ll be happy to oblige you,”
he said briefly. “I take it you’re asking for horseplay?”

“Still you haven’t answered me.”

David appealed to Phillida. “Has he been like this all the evening?” he
began, but paused as he caught a glimpse of her face. His colour changed
and he shot a swift enquiring glance at Frances which took her off her
guard. For a moment he stood looking at her and his mouth twisted before
he laughed. “Dear me,” he said flippantly. “Life is full of little
surprises. No, ‘Dolly,’ I did not kill him.”

“Yet you were the last person who could possibly have been with him. You
came out of the garden room and told Frances that he was going for a
walk. That’s common knowledge.”

Godolphin’s prosecuting-counsel manner was growing, and he was sprawling
across the table in his eagerness.

“I did. I thought he was going out. Damn it, I’d fetched his coat and
hat from the hall for him.” The admission escaped him before he was
aware, and he broke off abruptly before Godolphin’s sharp intake of
breath.

“Why?”

“Because he asked me to.”

“Do you honestly expect anyone to believe that?”

“No. That’s why I didn’t mention it before. But that’s what happened.”

Godolphin slid back into his chair.

“Wouldn’t it be easier?” he said gently. “After all, we’re all on your
side. We all know what Robert was and we all know you’re inclined to
lose your head when you lose your temper. Give us a chance to get behind
you.”

David leant back against the door of the box. He looked very tall in his
dinner jacket. His hands were in his pockets and his head was bent.

“Why?” he said at last. “Why on God’s earth _should_ I have killed the
chap? I admit I was having a few words with the man about my marrying
Frances, but he couldn’t put his foot down one way or the other. He
wasn’t Meyrick, and anyway the child’s free, white and twenty-one.”

Godolphin glanced at Phillida again as if to make sure that she was an
appreciative audience.

“David,” he said, “supposing you were having this backchat with Robert
alone down there in the garden room, with the house quiet and the fire
low, and suppose Robert said something that got under your skin. Suppose
you suddenly saw his grey lock flapping in his eyes and you felt what a
damned silly pompous ass he was, and you suddenly let him have it.
Suppose you told him.”

He broke off and they stared at David. He was white. The old
friendliness had been wiped off his face as though with a sponge.
Godolphin went on.

“Suppose you told him about his own wife. You knew, remember. You were
the only guest at that wedding. And then, when you realised what you’d
done and saw how he was going to take it, and realised that Phillida was
going to be brought into it and that your marriage with Frances would be
mucked up hopelessly, suppose that then you lost your head . . . as you
do, you know . . . and you killed him.”

“With a toothpick, I suppose?”

Godolphin shrugged his shoulders.

“There used to be an old spike file in that desk in there, so Morris
says. He can’t remember when it disappeared. Whatever it was, you had a
week to get rid of it.”

David shifted his weight from the door.

“Imaginative little beggar, aren’t you?” he said, but for once his
lightness did not ring true and his face was still grey.

“If you’ll be reasonable I’ll back you to the limit.”

“David, for God’s sake!” Phillida was scarcely audible.

The painter ignored them both. He looked at Frances.

“Coming?” he enquired.

She rose at once and went over to him.

They went out of the restaurant together in silence. The only cab
available was an old one, a dreadful springless vehicle smelling like
the inside of an old-clothes trunk. Frances sat bleakly in a corner of
it as they jolted over the broad roads, greasy with light rain.

They were in a traffic jam at the end of Bond Street when at last he
spoke in a brittle, contemptuous tone which she had not heard before.

“And what do you think after all that?”

“I don’t.”

“Don’t what? Think I’m guilty or think at all?”

Frances closed her eyes and her voice was dreary.

“I don’t think anything except that I love you,” she said.

He said nothing at all, and she sat there wretchedly, feeling that she
had finished it, pulled the last sound spar out of the whole tottering
structure of life and peace of mind. Now David was gone and that was
that.

A movement at her side attracted her and she turned to find him looking
at her, a fixed and horrified expression on his face.

“That’s a blow below the belt, Duchess,” he said. “Do you mean it?”

“Yes,” she said doggedly. “I don’t even care if you killed Robert. I
don’t care if you’ve had a dozen mistresses and learned how to be so
nice to women by falling in love with all of them. I’m not interested. I
don’t mind. I’m past that.”

“Darling, this is bloody dangerous.” He put his arm round her and she
was surprised to find it shaking. “Don’t go and do this,” he said, his
lips touching her ear. “Don’t, please, sweet. You don’t know anything
about it. It’s all right for me, you see, but not for you. You’re so
new.”

“Do you love me?”

He bent his head until his forehead rested on her cheek.

“For my sins,” he said.

After a while he drew away from her, kissing her very lightly as he
raised his head and pushing her firmly away from him. He found her hand,
however, and held it so tightly that he hurt her, kneading it between
his own.

“I hit him,” he said. “That’s what happened. Lucar was there to begin
with, and there was an idiotic scene in which I became insufferably
upstage and refused to discuss you in front of him, and he got cheeky
and Robert wouldn’t or couldn’t shut him up. Finally I became all
theatrical and kicked the little blighter out. You heard ‘Dolly’ getting
at me this evening over my notorious temper? That was a dig at me
because I once had a row with Gabrielle down in the game room at 38. It
was over Phillida, the time when she was stringing me along and running
a serious affair with somebody else. This was years ago, about the time
I painted your portrait. I was very much the penniless artist in those
days, and Gabrielle said a few rather painful things about young men who
wanted to marry money. I had an Indian club, of all things, in my hand,
I remember, and there was quite a setout. I got away without doing any
damage but everyone knew, or thought they knew, that I might have done
some, and anyhow it all looked very bad. This affair the other night was
the same sort of thing. I pitched Lucar into the passage and he went off
like a streak. That was when you met him, wasn’t it? It was some little
time before I came up. Tenish.”

“Yes,” she said huskily. “That was the time. Just after ten. He looked
furious.”

“Not so much as I did. Robert was livid himself, unfortunately. That was
how it happened. He was still standing on the hearthrug, shaking with
fury, and he said something quite unpardonable, and I hit him. I hit him
very hard. In fact I barked my knuckles on his chin and cut his face
badly for him. He went down like a tree, with his head on the parquet. I
think I put him out for a minute or two for he lay there goggling at me
and I stood looking at him for a tremendous time.”

“I know, I saw you.”

“Did you? Where from? The yard?”

“Yes.”

“Hadn’t I pulled the blind down then? No? That must have been
afterwards. Yes, it was, of course. I drew the blind after I’d got him
into the chair and seen the mess his face was in.”

He was silent for a moment or so and she heard him laugh awkwardly in
the darkness.

“Such a silly, kiddish story. I was ordinarily and unintellectually
angry and I remained truculent. It didn’t pass. But I did have the sense
to realise that I’d put up an idiotic show by marking him, and my first
anxiety was to get him clean and tidy, so that his version of the story
wouldn’t sound too bad for anything. He was pretty worried about himself
too. He kept saying, ‘What will the servants think?’ like a parrot,
until I nearly hit him again. Finally I went out and got his hat and
coat for him and told him to get into them while I went up to say good
night to you. My idea was to cart him down to a doctor and get him
patched up. We were going to use the yard door so that he shouldn’t run
the risk of meeting anyone in the hall. Well, all that was all right as
far as it went, but when I came down again I heard him talking inside
the room. I assumed that Lucar had returned so I didn’t go in. I went
back down the passage, got my own coat from the cloak-room where I had
left it, like an ass, when I fetched his, and let myself out. When he
didn’t show up in the morning I took it for granted that he was hiding
somewhere, getting his face presentable.”

“Why didn’t you tell the police all this?”

He laughed and released her hand.

“It wouldn’t have been a good idea, ducky, would it?” he said. “Lucar
had brought the entire boiling down on his own head, anyway, by clearing
out.”

“You weren’t trying to shield Lucar?”

“No, naturally not. But I saw no point in going into a long story.”

“In fact you were shielding me?”

He leant over and put his hands one on each side of her on the wall of
the cab.

“Oh, my God, Duchess,” he said heavily, “if you make a hero of me you’re
going to come such a howling cropper.”

“I don’t think I care very much about that.”

He kissed her gently, almost shyly.

“I don’t believe you do. Heaven help us both,” he said.




                            CHAPTER THIRTEEN


THE DETECTIVE was sitting stolidly in the hall waiting for them as they
came up the steps. He was apologetic. Divisional Detective Inspector
Bridie, he assured them, was more than sorry to have to ask Miss Ivory
to come out again at this time of night, but if she would come down to
headquarters for a minute or two he would be eternally grateful.

David went with them as a matter of course, and the plain-clothes man
made no objection. It had begun to rain heavily again when they stumbled
out across the slippery pavement, up a worn flight of steps, and crossed
under the blue light into a narrow corridor neatly decorated in
government green. They went up uncarpeted stairs to a waiting room.
There was a young constable standing by the door, and behind him, seated
at the table and looking as if she was going to drop with fatigue, was
Miss Dorset, of all people.

Their escort cut short any mutual greetings with a hurried apology.

“It sounds funny, I know, but I wonder if you’d mind, miss? No talking,”
he said. “It won’t be for long. It’s only regulations.”

He nodded to the constable, who went off at once, leaving them all
looking at one another awkwardly. Frances was openly nervous.

They waited for a full minute before the clatter on the boards outside
announced the return of the constable. He came in ponderously, and his
young eyes rested on her with open boyish admiration.

“This way, Miss,” he said, beaming. “The inspector was sorry to keep you
waiting.”

She left David without a glance and went with him, and afterwards, when
she thought of it again, it seemed symbolic.

Bridie was sitting behind his desk, a pair of steel spectacles on the
tip of his nose and no trace of weariness in his bearing. He rose when
she came in and set a chair for her himself, waving the constable out of
the room as he did so.

“This is a fine time to ask ye to come and see me. Did ye think ye were
coming to chail?” he said cheerfully. A movement behind her made her
glance round to discover a helmetless constable seated at a small desk,
who was regarding her with unsmiling interest. “Ye don’t want to notice
him,” said Bridie with terrific jocularity. “The poor chap cholly well
has to sit there to take down any chewelery that may drop from ma lips.”

He laughed at his own attempt at a witticism, and his eyes were human
and pleased.

“Now,” he said, resettling himself, “I won’t keep ye long. Would you
chust repeat exactly what ye did on the night your poor dead
brother-in-law . . . pardon me, half brother-in-law . . . was last seen
alive?”

His friendliness, which amounted almost to gaiety, was not in the least
disarming. Frances felt her scalp begin to prickle, and breathing was
absurdly difficult.

“I was talking to Phillida,” she said cautiously, trying to remember
every word of her previous statement.

“At what time?”

“I don’t know exactly. I went up at about half-past nine, I think. I’d
heard the nine o’clock news on the radio. And then David arrived and he
and Robert had gone into the garden room. Robert told me not to go with
them, so I went up to Phillida. I stayed with her for some little time,
about another half-hour, and then I went down stairs again as I’ve told
you.”

“So ye have, and told it well,” he assured her happily. “But I’d just
like it once more. Half an hoor . . . That makes it tenish.”

Tenish. David had used that ugly little word. She hesitated uncertainly.
There was danger about. The smell of it was in the very air and yet she
could not place it. Bridie was beaming and avuncular, and she took the
plunge. After all, it was the truth. Surely there could be no harm in
sticking to that?

“Yes,” she said. “Just about ten. I passed Mr Lucar in the hall and I
went on down to the yard, as I said.”

“Wait a minute. Ye’re sure ye passed Mr Lucar at that time?”

“Yes. Perfectly sure.”

“Ah,” said Bridie, and the constable took another note.

“Then ye went down to the yar-rd and what did ye see?”

This was the danger point. This was the lie. She saw the real scene
clearly in her mind: David alone, looking down. Robert must have been
lying on the floor then, the mark on his jaw slowly puffing up. She
remembered the exact words she had used before and repeated them.

“I saw David and Robert talking.”

“Talking,” said Bridie. “Ah well, Mr Lucar will be pleased. He can sleep
in his own house tonight.”

He was watching her, peering out at her from under his heavy lids, and
she suddenly saw the pitfall.

“Is Mr Lucar here?”

“Chust in there,” he said, jerking his grey head towards an inner door.
“He’s a lucky man. For-rtunately for him there was a good conscientious
woman working uncommonly late in the picture gallery that night, and she
can tell how he came in for his hat and coat at ten o’clock and how they
walked down to the tube together and took a train. His servant swears
for him that night, and we’ve tr-raced his movements ever after that
night ourselves. The woman gives him a grand alibi.”

“Miss Dorset?”

“That’s she. She’s a great pairson. An honest, sensible conscientious
woman, isn’t she?”

“Oh yes,” she said absently, “yes, she’s all right. She’s absolutely
cast-iron. If she says it, it is so. It is so,” she repeated, facing the
result of her little lie. David and Robert talking. David and Robert.
Robert seen alive with David after Lucar was safely out of the house and
in Miss Dorset’s unimpeachable care. Robert never seen again.

She sat up suddenly, and Bridie pounced on her changing expression.

“What’s come into your mind?”

“Nothing,” she said earnestly. “Nothing.”

Yet out of the whirlpool of suggestions, riddles, bewildering details
and half-comprehended incidents which engulfed her something had arisen,
something which set a whole procession of appalling questions racing
through her mind. Since Lucar had not returned to the garden room that
night David had lied to her in the taxi when he had said he had heard
Robert talking to him through the door.




                            CHAPTER FOURTEEN


THE SOUND OF the latch slipping home in the darkness woke Frances to
full consciousness. She sat up in bed and peered across the room, trying
to make out a deeper shadow in the black.

“Frances?”

The whisper started out of the silence like a fire alarm, and she flung
out her hand and caught the tassel which turned on the bedside light.
The faint pink glow stretched out towards the door, and a figure
standing there stepped back against the portiere. It was Phillida.

“What’s happened?”

“Nothing else. I want to talk to you.”

“Oh, I see. Very well, come over here. What time is it?”

“Nearly four. I had to come. I couldn’t stay in my room another minute.
Frances, you’ve got to listen to me.”

“All right, of course I’ll listen. Don’t stand there shivering. Put the
quilt round you. What is it?”

Phillida came to the end of the bed but did not sit down.

“It’s ‘Dolly,’” she said huskily. “If only we could get him to go away.”

The younger girl eyed her curiously.

“I thought you seemed to be getting on pretty well with him tonight,”
she said at last.

“When he accused David? I know. That’s what I mean. That’s why I’m
frightened. Don’t you see, he’s plunged into this . . . this business as
if it were a new expedition or something. He doesn’t seem to see that
it’s real.”

Her earnestness was disarming, even at such an hour, and Frances felt
deeply sorry for her.

“Have you suggested that he go?”

“I’ve hinted. I didn’t dare to say it outright in case it made him
completely obstinate. You don’t know him. He’s always been like this.
That was how that secret marriage happened. He forced it. He talked and
bullied and got wildly and insanely enthusiastic until I simply went to
pieces and let him fix it. When I saw him come limping in the other day
I thought those frightful experiences out there had taken the fire out
of him, but they haven’t. What shall I do?”

“I don’t see what you can do, darling, except bear it,” Frances said
awkwardly. “He’s got all the cards. I mean you can’t _turn_ him out.”

“But Frances, you don’t understand.” Phillida was still talking in
whispers, but she had grown more vehement. “You don’t seem to grasp what
kind of person he is. He’ll go on ferreting at it until he drags the
whole horrible mess out into the daylight.”

“Let him.” Frances passed her hands over her face. “I wish to God he
would. We can’t go on like this all our lives.”

“Oh, but _listen_.” Phillida dropped on her knees by the bedside and
leant across the coverlet. “Frances. I haven’t told this to anybody but
I’m so frightened that I can’t bear it any longer. He hasn’t said
anything direct, of course, but I can see how his mind works, and from
the way he looks at me I’ve wondered . . . I mean, it’s sneaked through
my mind . . . that . . . Oh, lord, Frances, do you think he could be so
mad as to get it into his head that _I’d_ done it?”

“You? My dear girl, no. Of course not. You’re off your head. You feel
like this because it’s nighttime.”

“No, it’s not that. I’m not hysterical.” She was speaking with a deadly
seriousness which was convincing. “Don’t you see it’s not real to him at
all? He hasn’t got used to civilisation, that’s all. He thinks I might
have done it.”

A note in her voice startled Frances and she sat up.

“Phillida, you’re not telling me that . . .”

“That I did? No, I’m not. Of course I’m not.” She dragged herself to her
feet. “But there you are, you see. Even you’re willing to suspect me.
Everyone suspects me. The doctor does. Gabrielle does. ‘Dolly’ does. And
you, who know I didn’t, even you’re beginning to wonder. You fool! You
were with me yourself until you went downstairs and saw Robert talking
to David. Then on your own showing you heard someone go out and after
that you were hanging about the house for a long time. You know I
couldn’t have done it, could I? Could I?”

Could she? Frances found herself giving the question a consideration
both levelheaded and detached. Her own movements on the night of
Robert’s disappearance were stamped into her mind indelibly. She had
come flying up to her own room from the yard and had stayed there until
David had put his head in. A certain amount of time had elapsed between
those two incidents, so there had been plenty of opportunity for
Phillida to slip out of her room, hang about in one of the empty rooms
downstairs, and then, when David came up . . .

Her steady train of thought leapt forward. If the person whom David had
heard through the garden room talking to Robert had been Phillida, then
not only would he not have intruded upon them, but he would never have
admitted it afterwards.

Phillida leant down with her hands on the other girl’s shoulders. Her
face looked young and spoilt in her eagerness.

“Could I?” she repeated. “Say it. Could I?”

It was in that moment of hesitation, when the entire house seemed to be
listening as they huddled together in their little pool of rose-coloured
light, that the thing happened.

The great brass and iron gong, which Li-Cheng, that prince of dealers,
had insisted on presenting to Meyrick on the occasion of his first
marriage, and which had stood in decorative opulence in a corner of the
hall for thirty-five years, pitched onto the flags with a sound like all
the brass instruments of creation hurling down some gigantic ravine.
Everybody in the house heard it and knew what it was.

Frances was halfway across the room, with Phillida at her heels, when
the screams began. They resounded from somewhere downstairs and came,
one after the other, full lunged and lusty, in a steady crescendo.

The landing was a place of fluttering half darkness when they got out
there. Doors swung on their hinges and draughts fled past like live
things.

“What is it? Oh, what is it? What is it?” someone was repeating shrilly,
and Frances was astonished to discover that it was herself.

The reverberations of the first mighty crash still tingled in the air,
and as the fifth scream died, after reaching a pitch of abandoned
terror, there was a scuffle on the flags downstairs and then, for the
second time in her life, Frances heard the sound which should have been
so very reassuring and yet was not, the swift purposeful tread of
someone marching firmly across the hall.

It was the same. That was the one thing which stood out in her mind,
subduing every other thought by its significance. She choked back a cry
just in time and only a deep inarticulate sound escaped her.

Phillida clutched her shoulders.

“Who is it?”

She did not answer. There was a rush of cold air and a clatter as the
yard door slammed back against the wall and the screaming began again.

“For God’s sake keep that blasted woman quiet! He’s getting away. Stop
him!”

Godolphin’s voice, comfortingly human and furious, sounded in the
darkness, and they heard his stick grating on the stone as he limped
forward.

“Head him off by the front way. Quickly, Norris! After him! I’m
following as fast as my damned leg will let me.”

“All right, sir, all right.” Norris’ voice sounded quavery and the front
door opened, letting in a blast of damp air. He shouted as he took the
stone steps and Godolphin lurched after him.

Another scream, but a halfhearted one, sounded from the drawing-room
door, and Frances recognized the voice.

“Mrs Sanderson!” she called, hurrying down the staircase. “Mrs
Sanderson, are you hurt? I’m coming, I’m coming.”

There was a theatrical gasp as she reached the hall, and a vast damp
calico bundle collapsed in her arms.

“He’s here,” whispered the woman. “He’s here again. The killer’s come
back.”

Frances supported her.

“Are you hurt?” she repeated.

“No, I’m not hit. He missed me.”

“Then what are you screaming for? Turn the lights on.” As she said them
the words sounded unduly unsympathetic, but they had their effect. Mrs
Sanderson drew back, startled and reproachful.

Frances went over to the switch by the service door and found it without
difficulty. She stood blinking in the half-light. The gong was just as
she had expected to see it. It lay sprawling across its corner, a
wreckage of brass dragons and wrought-iron supports, while beside her,
her glistening face wearing an expression of injured amazement, was Mrs
Sanderson.

Frances glanced past her at the open threshold through which the wind
blew so freezingly. Godolphin came in almost immediately. He was wearing
a plaid dressing-gown, and his yellow cane looked incongruous with it,
although he evidently needed it.

“The fool missed him,” he said irritably. “I saw him myself, but he
streaked round to the back of the square like a rabbit. Damn this leg! I
had to give up.” He turned to greet Norris, who had come in behind him.
“You’re out of training. Couldn’t you keep up with him?”

“No sir, I couldn’t. I saw him but I couldn’t catch him.”

“Would you know him again?”

“I wouldn’t really like to say, sir. I didn’t really see his face at
all.”

“I don’t think he got much, anyway,” Godolphin said. “We were on to him
too soon. Have you looked about? Anything missing?”

Norris’ small eyes opened wide.

“I never thought it might be burglary, sir.” He sounded relieved at the
suggestion.

It was clear that Godolphin had never thought it was anything else, but
now that the idea was presented to him he leapt on it.

“Good lord!” he said, “I didn’t get a look at him. A man looks so
different when he’s running. Different height, even.” He broke off and
shot Frances a long, searching glance. She recognized his thought.

“Did you think it was David?”

The dangerous question rose to her lips and she might have asked it had
it not been for Mrs Sanderson. Until now the housekeeper had stood
helpless, but now she asserted herself.

“It was the nigger,” she exploded. “It was the nigger come back to
murder someone else.”

“You hold your tongue, Mrs S.! The police told you straight to hold your
tongue.” Norris strode across the stones and thrust his face into her
own.

“It was _him_,” persisted the woman. “I can see it in your eye. You saw
him. It was the nigger again.” She opened her mouth, presumably to
scream anew, but Norris dealt with her by placing a hand solidly across
the lower half of her face.

“She’s hysterical,” he said, wrestling with the refractory calico bundle
with an efficiency which was surprising. “She thought she saw a nigger
on the day of the murder, and it’s turned her blinking head. The police
themselves told her to keep quiet about it. She’s _advertising_ herself
as unbalanced, that’s what she’s doing. Keep quiet, Mrs S., do.”

A masterly jab in the stomach from the housekeeper’s elbow silenced him
with a squeak, and the good lady emerged from his arms dishevelled and
furious.

“You leave me be!” she exploded. “I did see him and the police
complimented me on the clear way I told it. I saw him all right, and
Molly saw him, and where is she now? Dead in ’er bed very likely. He’s
been back to take ’is toll.”

“Highly improbable.” The thin voice from the top of the stairs silenced
everybody. The old Gabrielle stood there, dripping with lace shawls and
resting on Dorothea’s arm. Phillida was a step or two behind her, and
together they made a dramatic group.

“Where is the girl?” Gabrielle addressed the house at large and was
answered.

“Here, ma’am.” A scrubby object, all loose hairs and cheap negligee,
wriggled self-consciously out of the drawing-room door and wavered in
the centre of the stage.

“How long have you been hiding there?” Gabrielle was in her more
omnipotent mood.

“Since we heard the moving about, ma’am.”

“When was that?”

“Just before the gong fell over, ma’am.”

“My God,” said Gabrielle conversationally. “My God, what next? You, Mr
Godolphin, what are you doing running about the house dressed up like
that?”

Godolphin straightened himself and coloured but he answered pertinently
enough.

“I heard the door that leads into the yard open and close and I came
down to investigate. On the way I ran into Norris, who had heard the
same thing. In the hall here we surprised somebody who made a dash for
it and knocked over the gong. Then Mrs Sanderson began to scream, and
the fellow, whoever he was, got away.”

Gabrielle turned to look at Phillida.

“When I was mistress of this house I had it locked at night,” she said
acidly. “It saved a lot of inconvenience.”

“But the door was locked, ma’am. I did it myself.” Norris was almost in
tears. “That’s why I was so took aback. Whoever came in must have had a
second key.”

“Impossible.” Gabrielle spoke flatly, almost carelessly. “Did anybody
see this burglar?”

“We’re wondering if it was a burglar, darling.” Frances felt her voice
was unnecessarily low.

“Are you, my dear? Did anybody see him?”

“Both Norris and I caught a glimpse of the man, Mrs Ivory.” Godolphin
was recovering his authority. “We just saw him for a moment, that was
all.”

“And was he a Negro?”

The enquiry, coming from her in all seriousness, was astonishing, and
they gaped at her. Godolphin looked at Norris, who seemed bewildered.

“No,” he said. “No ma’am. That is, I don’t think so. Do you, sir?”

“No, I don’t,” said Godolphin dubiously.

“Ah,” said Gabrielle as if she had established an important point. “And
if it wasn’t burglary why do you suppose this person came?”

“To fetch the weapon,” said Mrs Sanderson, and the simplicity of the
statement was impressive. “No one’s found the weapon. The police have
searched for it high and low but they didn’t know where to look. He knew
where to look and he’s come back for it.”

They humoured her, or flattered themselves that they did, while they
satisfied their own natural curiosity. All the downstairs rooms save one
presented the placid vacant look which daytime chambers always have when
startled into life in the middle of the night. The last room they
searched was the garden room, and there the change was slight but very
disturbing in the circumstances. A chair had been drawn up to the table,
while behind it the door of the cupboard, which had been closed ever
since the last police expert had examined it, hung swinging open.

Godolphin, who had led the exploring party, stepped back abruptly, and
Phillida caught her breath audibly. Mrs Sanderson thrust her way through
the group and stood looking at the ordinary and yet in the circumstances
singularly sinister scene.

“There you are,” she said. “What did I say? It was the murderer. He’s
been back for the weapon, and you know what that means. . . . He’s going
to use it again.”




                            CHAPTER FIFTEEN


IN THE MORNING, when the police had been informed and were still
wandering round the house, when David had called to see Gabrielle and
had spent an hour with her, and when Godolphin had disorganised the
normal domestic routine by taking every servant in the house over and
over every incident in the night’s adventure, Lucar delivered his
invitation.

There is something about real impudence which is a force in itself, and
the terse notes which arrived from him for every member of the family,
stating that he would be glad if they would give him their attention for
half an hour at three o’clock in Meyrick’s office at the gallery, had
the quality of an ultimatum.

To their own and each other’s astonishment they went meekly. It was an
extraordinary gathering. Everyone was quiet and everyone was angry. As
Frances looked round her and saw Phillida, waxy and hollow eyed, sitting
sullen in her furs, Godolphin trembling with suppressed irritation and
fidgeting with his stick as if he would like to use it, David aloof and
for once completely removed from her, Miss Dorset red eyed and shocked
into outraged silence, and Lucar odiously pleased with himself behind
Meyrick’s second desk, the fact which had been scratching at the back of
her mind for the past week came home to her abruptly. No one really
trusted anyone else any more. Each person in that unhappy group had at
one time or another during the last few days secretly suspected each of
the rest in turn of the one crime which is never forgiven in a civilised
community.

Lucar looked round with a brief smile.

“I don’t see the old lady yet,” he said. “We want her.”

They gaped at him and he enjoyed their astonishment.

“She’ll come,” he remarked.

David stirred. “What are you going to do, Lucar? Confess?”

The drawling question was intentionally offensive, and they had the
satisfaction of seeing the man redden.

“That would suit you, wouldn’t it?” he said. “You’ve been watching me,
Mr Godolphin. Placed me yet?”

The sarcasm seemed to be lost on Godolphin.

“Yes,” he said. “You were Robert Madrigal’s batman. An inefficient
servant.”

Frances got up. “This is silly,” she said, her voice sounding
unexpectedly authoritative in the electric silence. “What do you want to
say, Mr Lucar? You’ve asked us to meet you and here we are. Do say what
you’ve got to say, for heaven’s sake.”

Lucar turned to her. “That’s not quite the line to take with me,” he
began.

“My proud beauty,” supplemented David under his breath.

Lucar swung towards him savagely.

“That’ll do from you. That’ll do from the lot of you. I’ve got you and
you know it, but I’m going to put the position to you so clearly that
you can’t make any mistake. I’m only waiting for Mrs Ivory.”

“In that case we may as well go home.” Frances spoke wearily. “Is Granny
likely to come all the way up here just because you’ve asked her to?
Can’t you see it’s a miracle we’ve come ourselves? It seems to me that
you’re so pleased that you’re not arrested that it’s turned your head.
Of course Granny won’t come to you. It’s cheek of you to ask her,
appalling cheek.”

She paused. Lucar was smirking and David came over to her.

“Hold it, Duchess,” he murmured and pulled her round to face the door.

Gabrielle was making an entrance. On her way down the passage she had
been leaning on Dorothea’s arm, but now she came forward alone. She was
in full mourning, made almost bulky by a fox cape hanging to her knees
and surmounted, most unexpectedly, but very charmingly, by an
old-fashioned widow’s cap with a starched and goffered lining and a long
dark veil hanging down behind. Her natural dignity saved the situation,
and even in the midst of his triumph Lucar evidently felt that she had
somehow scored over him.

She sat down and Dorothea planted herself at her elbow.

It was at this point that the wind rose again or, to be exact, that the
little company first noticed it. The long brocade curtains behind Lucar
billowed out as a great gust came rushing through the narrow slit at the
top of the tall window.

It was typical of the afternoon that this trivial incident should have
impressed itself so vividly upon their minds, and to the end of her days
Frances was to feel a twinge of apprehension whenever a curtain should
swing out suddenly in the rising wind.

It was Godolphin who opened the ball, sitting forward on his hard chair,
his folded hands resting on the crook of his stick.

“Now,” he said, “now, my man, perhaps you’ll explain yourself. What the
devil did you mean by cutting and running the moment poor Madrigal was
found dead? Didn’t you realise you’d have the police after you like a
pack of hounds?”

Lucar looked up from the desk where he sat in Meyrick’s chair, drawing
circles with Meyrick’s pen on Meyrick’s blotter. He was glistening with
conceit.

“Not very politely asked,” he said primly, “but I’ll answer you. I went
before I knew he was dead. The police saw that at once when I pointed it
out to them. On the night before the discovery I happened to hear that a
certain collector in London was interested in the Gaylord Venus. That
information came into this office, and I saw an opportunity of doing
myself a bit of good. Madrigal was out of the way. I couldn’t find him
to ask his opinion even if I wanted to. So I slept the night on it and
decided to take the affair into my own hands. I went down to the bank
and drew out all the cash I had and nipped on a boat for New York. I
reckoned that if anyone could make Damon Penryth of Philadelphia sell
that picture it was little Henry. In mid-ocean the news about Madrigal
came through on the radio. I put two and two together and decided to
come back. I sent a wire to the police at once, and they met me off the
boat. We soon understood one another. I was all right. I knew that all
along.”

“That was why you came back, of course?”

Lucar lowered one thick white eyelid.

“Partly,” he said.

“I don’t see why you had to take your own money, Mr Lucar.” The
observation was forced out of Miss Dorset by sheer indignation. “That
was ordinary routine intelligence and our property.”

“Never mind.” Gabrielle’s distaste was a Victorian tour de force. “I
imagine that Mr Lucar . . . is it . . . did not ask us here to discuss a
piece of very ordinary business chicanery on his part. What have you got
to tell us, Mr Lucar, that you feel we might find interesting?” She was
quite insufferable and meant to be.

Lucar appeared to be enjoying himself.

“Well, you know,” he said softly, “I thought we all ought to have a
little chat. You see, I’ve got my position to think of. The guv’nor’s
coming back, isn’t he? And I may decide to stay with the firm.”

They watched him blankly. After all, as Gabrielle remarked afterwards,
there is nothing actually unbelievable about mass blackmail, but it is
so very unconventional that it startles one.

“I don’t think we understand you, Lucar.”

It was David, sounding dangerously quiet.

“That’s a pity, Field.” Lucar shot the words out with unexpected
savagery. “I rather hoped you would . . . you particularly. You’re in a
jam, aren’t you? All of you. While I was out of the country there was
always a chance, from the point of view of the people who didn’t know,
that I was the person the police were after. However, now I’m back, now
I’ve had my little talk with the police and they’ve shown that they’re
not interested in me, all that’s altered. Now do you see where I’m
leading?”

Nobody answered him, and his smile grew more pronounced.

“You’re leaving me to do all the talking, aren’t you?” he said. “I don’t
care. If you want it put in words you can have it. It’s all the same to
me. My freedom puts a rope round you. Don’t you kid yourselves it isn’t
there. Don’t you imagine the police are going to sleep. There’s a lot of
work being done on the quiet. A lot of little odds and ends of
information are finding their way onto the superintendent’s desk. But so
far they haven’t had all my contribution.”

“You’re suggesting that we don’t want the police to find Robert’s
murderer,” said Frances abruptly.

He turned towards her.

“One of you doesn’t,” he said, “and none of you _will_.”

“What the hell are you saying?” Godolphin rose painfully to his feet.
“We’ve listened to quite enough of this,” he said. “This is the kind of
thing one might have expected from you, Lucar. You were a snivelling
little nuisance on the last occasion I had anything to do with you. When
I went off to do my damned silly heroics I looked down at you sleeping
by Madrigal’s feet and I thought then it was a wasted effort.”

The force of his contempt was tremendous, and they glanced at him slyly
out of the corners of their eyes. Great heroism, like great cowardice,
is shy-making, and they were all embarrassed when he mentioned the story
which had made headlines when Robert Madrigal had returned to
civilisation to tell it.

Lucar met Godolphin’s eyes for a moment and flushed as he looked away.

“All right, say what you like,” he said doggedly. “I’ve never cared what
anyone said or thought about me and that’s how I’ve got where I am. One
of you here killed Madrigal. If that’s not clear to you, believe me it
is to the rest of the world. In your hearts you know it. That’s why
you’re here. Well, now you know where you stand. So far I’m not telling
any more of what I know than is necessary to clear myself, and if
everything goes on as I intend it shall I shan’t feel called upon to say
any more. I thought I’d tell you all and I’d tell you all together, so
no one makes any mistakes.”

Godolphin limped to the desk and picked up the telephone.

“Put me on to the police,” he said briefly into the instrument.

Lucar leant forward and laid a finger on the stand, destroying the
connection.

“Wait,” he said. “Let the others have a say. There are enough witnesses
here to make the police give me a gruelling, but does everybody here
_want_ me to talk?”

There was a freezing silence. Godolphin stood with the instrument still
raised, and Lucar kept his finger on the stand.

“Well,” he said, “now’s your opportunity.”

“No.” It was Gabrielle. “Sit down, Mr Godolphin. When the time comes we
will call the police.”

There were at least three sighs in the room, and a splatter of rain
swept the window in that long moment wherein Godolphin replaced the
telephone and Lucar smiled again.

“Someone’s seen the light,” he said and nodded to Gabrielle as no one
had ever nodded to her in nearly ninety years.

“It’s bluff,” said David, clearing his throat. “Pure bluff. There’s no
earthly reason why the thing shouldn’t have been done from outside.”

“Isn’t there?” Lucar’s mouth twisted with grim amusement. “Isn’t there
any reason why whoever killed Madrigal could disappear quietly out of
that dark house over there when the first person who goes in without
knowing the place raises half the servants and kicks over a gong the
moment he sets foot in it?”

Frances received a mental thump between the shoulder blades. That was
the unformed question which had been worrying her from the beginning.
Those quick, firm footsteps marching so surely across the hall, once
last night and once on that other night nearly a fortnight before; they
had sounded in the dark. They had crossed the dark hall where the gong
stood and where there might have been a dozen other obstacles. Whoever
owned those footsteps had been peculiarly sure of the ground.

She caught sight of Gabrielle and Dorothea. The two old women were
regarding the redheaded man behind the desk as if he were an apparition.
They knew the house, of course. For thirty years they had known every
inch of it. But that idea was so preposterous that Frances smiled and
did not see David glance so nervously at Phillida.

Lucar seemed satisfied with the impression he was making. He leant back
in Meyrick’s chair and crossed his plump legs.

“The police seem to be taking a lot of interest in a nigger some scivvy
thought she saw,” he remarked. “I’m much more interested in certain
other little things . . . the music-hall song, for instance.”

He regarded their stony faces with growing’ satisfaction.

“No one really amused?” he said. “That’s a funny thing. It’s a famous
old song. ‘No one’s going to kiss that girl but me.’ You know how it
goes. ‘Pride of Idaho, So now you know, If you go, You’ll find there’s
something on her mind. Don’t think it’s you, Cause no one’s going to
kiss that girl but me.’ Don’t you get it, anybody? Let me whistle it to
you.”

He pursed his lips, and the catchy tune sounded shrill and clear in the
crowded room. It was not quite an errand boy’s version; nor was it
strictly correct. There was an individuality about it and an element of
great weariness.

“Oh, my God,” said Miss Dorset, her voice thick and deep in her throat.
“The whistle on the telephone.”

“Was that it?” Phillida and Gabrielle spoke together and both broke off
in the same way as if they had said too much.

“What’s this? I haven’t been told about this.” Godolphin turned towards
them eagerly, all his anger evaporating before his interest in the new
clue.

“You recognise it, do you?” Lucar was watching Miss Dorset with his head
on one side.

“Yes, I heard it . . . once.” The woman spoke dully. She was frightened.
“It was about eight months . . . ten . . . no, nearly a year ago. A call
came through for Mr Madrigal here at the office. I didn’t recognise the
voice. It was foreign and sort of constrained. Something about it made
me curious, and I listened for a moment or two. That was all I heard,
just the tune whistled like that. Then Mr Madrigal hung up. He went out
at once and didn’t come back all day.”

She paused.

“I never saw him quite the same after that,” she added presently.

Godolphin was looking at her as if he thought she was gibbering.

“That doesn’t sound like you,” he said. “I mean that’s a fantastic
story. It’s melodrama. It sounds like the fakir’s curse. Pull yourself
together. What really happened?”

“It’s true.” Phillida was sitting bolt upright, two spots of colour
burning in her cheeks. “It often happened, or at least he thought it
did. It became an obsession with him. He used to dream about it. That’s
what frightened me so. I thought he was out of his mind. That day
after—after we found him I told Gabrielle up in the bedroom and she
thought I was mad. Now Miss Dorset’s telling you, and you’re looking at
her as if she . . .”

The words died, and a trickle of laughter escaped her, growing in volume
and rising high and uncontrolled. Gabrielle moved with surprising
agility.

“Quick,” she said, “quick, somebody.”

It was Frances who reached her first and who shook the hysteria out of
her.

“All right,” said Godolphin when the excitement had died a little. “All
right, all right. There’s no need to go off the deep end about it,
Phillida. If you all say it did happen I’ll accept it. I knew Robert
pretty well, though, and I can’t say I see him as a nervous wreck. Are
you sure he wasn’t pulling your leg?”

“Oh, no, you’re on the wrong tack there entirely. Robert had changed.
Last time I saw him that’s exactly how I should have described him, a
nervous wreck.”

David made the statement quietly, almost casually, and his expression
did not change before Godolphin’s incredulous stare.

“Amazing,” said Godolphin. “How often did this occur? Once a month? Once
a week?”

“Pretty regularly at the finish, wasn’t it?” Lucar put the question to
the woman slyly, as if they shared a confidence. “It began about a year
ago, and it’s been happening at irregular intervals ever since, hasn’t
it, Mrs Madrigal?”

Phillida covered her face with her hands.

“Yes, I think so.” Her voice was smothered. “He was getting more and
more on edge all the time. It was only since the summer that he began to
talk so wildly about it, and I began to think he was insane.”

“There’s nothing insane about it if Miss Dorset heard it too,” Godolphin
declared practically.

“Exactly. That’s my point,” Lucar’s tone was quiet, but it brought them
all round facing him again. “Well, there you are,” he said. “That’s all
I’m telling at the moment, but I’ve got a hunch it’s going to be enough.
Now I won’t detain you. I dare say you’ll all feel like a little
discussion without me. I’m sorry I can’t offer you this room but I’m
going to be busy. However, the rest of the mausoleum is at your
disposal. Miss Dorset, I’ll have a cup of tea in here at four-fifteen.”

It was the final insult, the last twist of the screw, and he looked
round him eagerly to see if his hold was secure.

On the other side of the room Frances also looked about her. She was
waiting for the outcry, the single annihilating stroke which would send
him back where he belonged. It did not come. They were going to stomach
it. The realisation came to her with a sense of dismay. It was
unbelievable but also obvious. Gabrielle had lain a restraining hand on
Godolphin’s sleeve, and the rest were silent and expressionless.

They went, leaving Lucar in his triumph, and trooped into the antique
room. It was deserted, and there was an awkward pause as Gabrielle, who
had headed the procession of defeat, leaning on Dorothea for support,
paused and faced her flock.

“I shall sit here,” she announced. “Tell them to keep the public out of
here. This gallery is closed.”

“Darling, do you think you ought to?” It was not like Phillida to be
solicitous, but she sounded sincere. “You ought to go to bed after all
that. I shall myself. I can’t stand it. I can’t stand it any longer.”

Gabrielle beckoned Godolphin.

“Take her home,” she said. “All of you go out of here. Do you mind? I
want to be alone except for Dorothea. I am old, too old. I want to sit
here and rest and make up my mind.”

The rest of them moved out onto the staircase and stood about in two
little groups, whispering. David paused by Frances.

“I’m going back to the studio,” he said abruptly. “I’ve got some work.”

“To work?” It was an unexpected announcement at such a time and she
echoed him.

He nodded. “Yes. I’ve got a drawing, a portrait, I must finish. I’ll see
you soon. Stay in for me this evening. I’ll ring you.”

She said nothing and he laughed and, taking one of her hands, squeezed
it violently before he turned away and hurried off down the stairs,
leaving her looking after him.

Frances moved to the long landing window and knelt on the low sill, to
look down into the square and see him go. It was nearly dusk and the
lamps were yellow in the blue haze. There was no sign of David, and she
took it that she had missed him. All the same she did not move. The
familiar scene outside was peaceful and normal at a moment when ordinary
reflection was impossible. At that time her mind was a confused dumping
ground of fears and impressions, and she was grateful for a moment’s
respite.

She did not notice the others go, nor did she see the various employees
who passed her. She remained staring out of the window for nearly twenty
minutes, simply kneeling upon the sill, contemplating the traffic.

It was the hullabaloo at the back of the building which recalled her to
the present. The clatter of the restaurant tray on the parquet was the
first alarm, and the babel followed when the office boy shouted the
news.

It had been four-fifteen exactly when that young man knocked on the door
of Meyrick’s room and carried in the tea which Lucar had ordered so
ungraciously. He had been halfway to the desk when he had seen the man
and the tray had slipped from his hand.

Lucar was dead. Even a fourteen-year-old office teamaker had seen that
much. The smug expression was still on his face, and he still sat in
Meyrick’s chair, but there was a narrow wound in his side where a thin
steel blade had slid in between his ribs, piercing the chest wall and
penetrating the heart itself. Lucar had died as Robert Madrigal had
died, instantly and without a sound, and once again there was no trace
of any weapon.

It was while the entire staff of the gallery was crowding on the back
staircase, the only approach to the office while Gabrielle remained in
possession of the antique room, that Frances, still not fully conscious
of the smothered uproar two walls behind her, suddenly saw David Field
come down the steps directly under the window and hurry off across the
road.




                            CHAPTER SIXTEEN


AT EIGHT O’CLOCK there were still lights in the gallery, while in the
house next door there was that atmosphere of bustle which alone makes
crises bearable. As Frances carried two hot-water bottles across the
hall she hardly noticed the plain-clothes man, sitting there silent and
official. She hurried up the stairs for the twentieth time since
Phillida’s condition had become acute without looking at him. She had
grown used to him.

Godolphin remained exactly where she had left him. He was still leaning
over the banisters on the landing, his arm folded on the rail where the
doctor’s coat hung, and he did not glance at her as she passed.

The upper hall looked strange with all the doors open, and glimpses of
the lighted rooms within were intimate and homely. Blankets lay about in
piles and the linen press stood open, while the trolley bearing basins
and ewers, which was drawn up outside the sickroom, added to the general
air of deshabille. 38 Sallet Square was no longer a grande dame but a
lady in her petticoat with her stockings coming down. There were
whispers everywhere, the rattling of crocks and the hissing of kettles,
hurrying footsteps and doors closing quietly.

Mrs Sanderson came tiptoeing out of Phillida’s room with two bundles in
her arms.

“I’m just going to heat these bricks up again,” she murmured as they
met. “When it comes to warmth you can’t beat a brick. Just go in, miss.
Don’t knock. Poor thing, she’s delirious again. Can you wonder at it?
It’s a miracle to me we’re not all crawling up the walls.”

She sped on and crackled starchily down the stairs while Frances let
herself into Phillida’s bedroom.

It was very warm in there, and old Dorothea bent over the fire where a
small brass kettle was boiling. The doctor was standing at the end of
the bed, his hands clasped loosely behind him. Frances was tremendously
grateful to him. He was friendly enough but he also possessed, in manner
at any rate, that superb quality of superhumanity which made it seem
safe for Phillida to toss and mutter as much as she liked.

She lay with her lids parted, the narrow slits showing far too much of
the whites of the eyeballs. She might have been an old woman, her face
shrunken, with the nose pinched and the lips grey. Every now and again
she spoke in a drunken whisper. It was for the most part
indistinguishable, but single words came out with startling clarity.

“Daydream,” said Dorothea. “She keeps saying ‘daydream.’ No warmth. No
warmth yet. It’s not right. Her hand’s like a stone.”

The doctor took Phillida’s pulse again. He made no comment but replaced
the limp arm very carefully and tucked the covers well over it.

“What’s she done?” Frances put the question abruptly. “That can’t be
just fright, can it?”

“Shock?” he said, smiling faintly at her. “Oh, can’t it! She’s had the
equivalent of a kick over the heart. There’s nothing like emotion to
upset the circulatory system. She was in a bad nervous condition to
begin with, and this last shock seems to have toppled her over the
edge.”

“Will she be all right?”

He did not answer immediately but turned back to the bed.

“I think so,” he said at last. “The only real danger at the moment is
from infection. In a state like this resistance is practically nil, so
there’s always a danger from pneumonia or any other bug there may be
about. She’ll need constant watching.”

Frances did not understand the dubious note in the last few words.

“You mean she can’t be moved to a nursing home? But can’t we have a
couple of good nurses here?”

He hesitated, looking very uncomfortable.

“That would be ideal, of course, if it could be arranged.”

“You mean they might not care to come to us?” The dismay on the small
heart-shaped face turned up to him was so frank that he patted her
shoulder.

“Well, it’s an awkward time, isn’t it?” he said gently. “It’s no good
having anyone second rate, either. Still, I’ll try, I know the Pelham
Street people pretty well, well enough to put it all to them. I’ll see
what I can do. I don’t think I’ll use this phone.”

“No, no, of course not.” Frances felt unsteady on her feet. Nothing else
had brought the situation home to her quite so clearly. “There’s an
extension in my room next door. Will you come?”

She led him to it and was going out again when he stopped her.

“I wonder if you’d mind?” he said. “Just a minute. I’d like a few words
with you if I may. Perhaps we’d better have the door closed. Mrs
Madrigal’s collapse occurred immediately after she heard the news of Mr
Lucar’s death, did it? Who told her? You?”

“I’m afraid I did. I helped Dorothea to bring my grandmother over from
the gallery and then I went in to see Phillida. She was just going to
bed. She had felt groggy all day, and I ought to have had more sense
than to blurt the whole thing out. But I’m afraid I’ve grown so used to
Phillida being ill. We all have.”

He nodded gravely. “Naturally,” he said. “There’s so little to show in
these nervous conditions. You simply told her flatly, did you?”

“I said Lucar had been killed.”

“And then she collapsed?”

“Yes. I thought she’d merely fainted. I called Dorothea and we got her
on the bed. Then I saw that her forehead was wet and we realised how
cold she was. That was when I got on to you.”

“I see,” he said but he still hesitated, and she struggled on with her
explanations.

“We’d been having a sort of family conference,” she volunteered. “Mr
Lucar called it himself in my father’s office in the gallery next door.
When it was over most of us stayed there for a bit, in the building, I
mean, but Phillida felt rotten, so Mr Godolphin brought her back here at
once.”

“Oh, did he?” The doctor brightened. “I hadn’t realised that. Did he
stay with her until you came?”

“No.” Frances paused uncertainly. It was very difficult. Even to see his
inference would be dangerous. “No,” she repeated presently, “he didn’t,
as a matter of fact. He had to go out in a car.”

“In a car?”

“Yes. I’m so sorry I’m being vague. It’s quite simple really. You see,
as they came back they saw the new car which Godolphin is thinking of
buying had been sent along by the showroom people. The salesman had been
waiting for some time, so Godolphin merely planted Phillida in her room
and went off down again to try the car.”

“Then she was alone in the house for . . . say . . . a half to three
quarters of an hour before you came?”

“About half an hour. Lucar was found twenty minutes after we’d all left
him, and we came over here almost immediately we heard what had
happened. Because of Granny, you see. The servants were here all the
time, of course.”

“But weren’t they in the basement?”

“They may have been. In fact, yes, they probably were most of the time.”

“I see,” he said again and stood looking at her, his tired face flushed
with embarrassment. She was not looking very happy herself, and the
shadows under her eyes were alarming. He smiled at her wryly. “You’ll
have to take it carefully yourself,” he said. “It’s an appalling ordeal.
Look here, this isn’t quite ordinary inquisitiveness, but there is one
point I would like to know. Is there any connecting door between this
house and the gallery?”

Frances flushed. “Yes,” she said reluctantly. “It’s Meyrick’s own door.
That’s my father, of course. No one else ever dreams of using it. That’s
why it never occurred to any of us to go that way this afternoon,
although it would have been much more sensible for Gabrielle. It may
sound queer to you, but I’ve never been through that door in my life.
Meyrick made a fetish of it.”

“Where is it?”

She took a deep breath. After all, what did it matter? The police knew
now and tomorrow everyone else would know.

“It opens from the back of the cupboard in Meyrick’s bedroom,” she said
slowly, “and it leads into his office.”

“His office? Isn’t that where Mr Lucar died?”

She nodded miserably and he was acutely sorry for her, but also curious.

“If it wasn’t used by anyone except your father I suppose it was kept
locked?”

Frances shrugged her shoulders. She had expected this from the police,
but if it had to come from the doctor what, after all, did it matter?

“It was bolted from this side,” she said. “Meyrick kept it like that
except when he was actually in the gallery, and when he went away it was
left bolted. My grandmother has that bedroom now, and the connecting
door was still bolted when we came back this afternoon. She’s hardly
ever out of the room, you see.”

“Yet she was when Mr Lucar was killed?”

“Yes. She was over in the gallery.”

He glanced at the telephone. “It’s all extremely awkward,” he said. “You
realise that in all fairness I should have to explain the situation to
any nurse who came?”

“For God’s sake get someone discreet.” The words were out of her mouth
before she could stop them.

He glanced up sharply, and for a moment they eyed one another.

“Yes,” he said, “that’s important too. Well, I’ll see. I can’t promise
but I’ll see.”

She left him dialling the number and was about to return to the sickroom
when she saw Mrs Sanderson as she came out on the landing. Godolphin had
disappeared from his sentry post, and she thought she heard him
whispering to Dorothea round the corner by the sickroom door. Mrs
Sanderson was evidently lying in wait for her. She was halfway up the
staircase and now stood beckoning.

As Frances came forward so she retreated, leading her across the hall to
the breakfast room with such ostentatious nonchalance that the
plain-clothes man regarded them both hopefully. However, once in safety,
with the door shut firmly behind them, her manner underwent a startling
change.

“You must sit down, miss,” she said, leering at her with cow-eyed pity
at least three parts genuine. “Sit down and get out your handkerchief.
I’ve just heard something that I think you ought to know before anyone
else. Be brave, my dear. They’ve got him.”

It worked. Frances was never quite able to forgive Mrs Sanderson or
herself for that. A sinking void seemed to heave and swallow her and the
brightly lit familiar room grew dark. The other woman watched her,
compassion mixed with open satisfaction. She was a ghoul by temperament
but not an unkindly one.

“Molly got it out of the man on the back door,” she said. “They found
his address and sent and took him down to the station. There’s been no
end of goings on at the gallery,” she added, not without a touch of
wistfulness. “Poor Mr David! You won’t believe it, will you?”

The last question was an entreaty, not to say a threat, and in spite of
everything it struck Frances as funny.

“No,” she said with a brisk conviction which almost spoiled Mrs
Sanderson’s moment, it sounded so authoritative. “No, of course not.”

“He’s at the station,” persisted the housekeeper, making it clear that
she hoped for gallantry rather than optimism. “Of course everybody knows
now what happened. Mr Lucar told his suspicions, and the murderer ’ad to
strike again. It’s very terrible. He was such a nice man. Now you’ll
want to go away and have a good cry, won’t you? There’s no one in the
servants’ hall. You’d never be disturbed there. I’ll make you a hot
malted milk.”

“No, I must go back to Phillida,” said Frances, feeling more and more
like the boy on the burning deck, yet assailed by an idiotic inclination
to accept the offer.

“My brave girl!” There were real tears in Mrs Sanderson’s eyes. Frances
fled.

The plain-clothes man was not at his post, and it did not occur to her
until afterwards that he had gone into the drawing room to listen
through the inner door to the housekeeper’s revelations. Just at that
moment very few things were clear to her. It was not a time for
intelligent thinking. David arrested? David proved guilty? It was
absurd, ridiculous, impossible, not likely to be true, out of character,
insane.

Insane? The word burst in her mind like a flare. More fantastic beliefs
are held by the layman about insanity than about anything else in the
civilised world. Frances was no alienist. She too had been brought up to
believe in the shibboleths, and the smiling, mild-mannered homicidal
maniac of superhuman strength and agility was a reality to her.

Insanity. The word opened up a dozen possibilities. If someone near and
close should prove to be insane then anything was possible.

She had reached the foot of the stairs and had paused there, trying to
get a hold on herself, when some way behind her the door of the garden
room closed softly.

She stood listening. It was dark down that corridor, yet whoever was
walking there did not trouble to turn on the light. She heard the
footsteps on the stones, confident and yet careful. She had only a few
seconds to wait. Nearer came the patter on the marble, nearer and
nearer.

And then, as at last a figure emerged, she swung round, astonishment
ousting all other emotions.

It was Gabrielle. She was quite alone and she looked unexpectedly
commanding in a fitted quilted dressing-gown made like a theatre coat.
It was grey and hooded and lent her an odd fancy-dress appearance. She
paused when she saw Frances and her black eyes wavered guiltily.

“The house is nice and warm,” she remarked.

“Oh, darling, you shouldn’t.” The girl swept aside this flagrant attempt
to divert the issue. “You ought not to come downstairs alone.”

“My dear child.” Old Mrs Ivory flushed with anger. “I may be old but I’m
not yet in my grave, I hope.” She came forward confidently, remarkably
sure of herself, her small body held up by sheer nervous strength. The
ascent daunted her a little, however, and she accepted her
granddaughter’s arm. Frances found that she was trembling.

“Granny, you’ll kill yourself,” she said helplessly. “What did you want
down there? Couldn’t I have fetched it?”

Mrs Ivory paused on the stairs. She was breathless and shaky, but her
eyes were honestly furious.

“No, you could not,” she said. “You’re a nice girl, but you can’t see
for me. No one can see for me with my eyes. No one can think for me. Oh,
my God, Frances, if I could steal your body how I would!”

There was nothing whimsical about the final observation. Gabrielle was
evidently speaking the literal truth.

Dorothea stood on the top of the stairs, her eyes popping out of her
head.

“Madam!” she said.

She came down a step or two and Gabrielle relinquished Frances’ arm and
clutched the other woman.

“All right,” she said and laughed. “All right, Dorothea. No talk. No
recriminations. Take me to my room.”

Dorothea did so quite literally. She bent her broad back, lowered her
head and picked up her mistress. Gabrielle was tiny. She rode like a
child, one arm round the other woman’s neck, and her own head nodding
slightly in its little quilted hood.

“You go to the doctor, miss, while I get Madam settled.” Dorothea spoke
over her shoulder. “There’s no one with him. Poor man, he must think
it’s a madhouse.”

Frances hurried down the hall to Phillida’s room. She found the doctor
outside the door, talking to Godolphin. They ceased abruptly as she came
up and Godolphin nodded vigorously.

“I quite understand,” he said. “I’ll go across now and find somebody.
Oh, my dear fellow, don’t apologise. I agree with you. It’s necessary,
or at least it’s wise. All right then, leave it to me.”

He limped off, glad to be of some service.

“Did you get a nurse?” Frances put the question anxiously.

“Yes, I did.” He smiled at her. “Two good women are coming along at
once. I rather thought I’d go and fetch them myself, as a matter of
fact.”

“That’s extremely nice of you.”

“Not at all.” He looked a little uncomfortable. “I shall have to have a
word with them in private and I thought I’d get it over in the car. Oh,
and by the way, I . . . er . . . I thought that just to placate
everybody and to put myself absolutely in the right with the Nursing
Agency that I might get one of these plain-clothes men who are swarming
about the place to go on duty outside this door. Then the nurses can’t
feel that they’re in any dan . . . well, that there’s anything to be
excited about, can they?”

“You mean no one could attack them from outside?” she murmured.

“I mean then no one could attack them at all, my dear,” he said briskly.
“Mr Godolphin offered to fix it. He’s been very helpful. He’s _the_
Godolphin, isn’t he? What’s his position here?”

A wild inclination to say, “He’s Phillida’s real husband” and see what
happened assailed Frances, but she controlled it and answered
cautiously.

“He’s not a relative but he’s a very old friend. When he came back and
found us in this mess and heard that Daddy was held up in quarantine he
offered to stay and do what he could.”

“Oh, I see.” The doctor was satisfied. “Good of him,” he commented, but
she fancied his glance was thoughtful, and she wondered what Phillida
might have let slip in that strange blurred muttering of hers.

With the departure of the doctor and the return of Mrs Sanderson to keep
vigil in the sickroom a temporary peace descended on the house.

Frances went into her own room and sat down on the bed. For the first
time she realised how weary she was.

She was still sitting there when Dorothea found her. The old woman came
in with a mumble of mingled relief and reproach and plumped herself down
in the bedside chair.

“I’m sorry, miss,” she said with that slight truculence which is born of
fear, “I can’t help it. I think my legs will give way any minute.”

“Oh, Dorothea!” Frances scrambled off the bed, alarmed and contrite.
“Dorothea, I’m so sorry. What can I get you? I forget that you’re not
younger than any of us. We all do.”

“It’s not the work; that’s nothing. You sit down yourself, miss.”
Dorothea was breathing deeply and her square wrinkled face was pallid.
“I’m as strong as ever I was. No, it’s not that. It’s me heart.”

She laid her hand on her stiff black bosom expressively.

“It’s me heart,” she repeated and shot a sidelong glance at the girl. “I
love the mistress,” she began after a pause. “If she was my own mother I
couldn’t love her more.”

She was silent and Frances, looking at her, was startled to see tears
slip out of her eyes and slide down over her cheeks. Tears and wrinkles
are ever an appalling combination, but in Dorothea, that tower of
strength and common sense, they were terrifying. A drop fell on her
hand, and she looked down at it in surprise.

“I’m off me head,” she said, brushing her eyes angrily. “But, oh, Miss
Frances, my dear, I’m so frightened. You see, it’s not the first time
I’ve found her wandering about this house.”

“What?”

“There, there, my dear, don’t get excited.” Now that the admission was
made and her secret out Dorothea was much more herself again. “It
doesn’t actually signify. But I must tell somebody for my own peace of
mind. It’s no good me talking to the police; they’d only come and worry
her and she’s too old for that. Besides, I won’t have it. They bully her
over my dead body.”

“But, Dorothea, what is this? What do you mean? When did you find her
wandering about the house before? Not on the night . . .”

“Yes, I did. On the night Mr Robert must have died. She was wandering
about the house in the pitch dark. She knows the place so well, you see.
We lived here for thirty years. You get to know a house in that time.”

Frances sat down abruptly. “You’d better tell me,” she said.

Dorothea bent forward and lowered her voice to the earnest monotone of
confidence.

“Do you remember meeting me outside Miss Phillida’s door that night?”
she said. “You remarked that it was a pity the mistress had come and I
said yes, it was and that she was very angry with Mr Robert. I know I
told you then that she wouldn’t go to bed.”

“I remember. Go on.”

“I’m telling you. I went back to her then and she seemed quieter, but
still I couldn’t get her to go to bed anyhow. After a bit I went out and
left her. That always annoys her, and I thought it might bring her to
her senses. I went down to the kitchen to get her a drop of hot milk.
Norris was out that night, and I got talking with Mrs Sanderson and
Molly. I don’t know how long I was there, but it might have been well
over an hour. Anyway, when I came back with the glass on a tray I found
all the lights in the place were out.”

“Who did that?”

“I don’t know. At the time I thought Mr Robert had probably done it
himself. I didn’t turn on the hall light myself because it wasn’t as if
I was at home, and I could get on just as well without it, considering
the hundreds of times I’ve come up those stairs. I went across the
landing and pushed open her door. ‘Here I am,’ I said and waited for her
to say something pretty sharp to me.”

She paused and looked at the girl with some of the bewilderment of that
moment echoed in her eyes.

“She wasn’t there. The room was empty. I couldn’t believe it. She’s been
so helpless for the last year. Well, I was at my wit’s end. I set the
milk down and went out again. I didn’t know what to do.”

There was vividness in the old voice, and Frances saw her standing on
the threshold of the big shadowy bedroom, the fire dying low behind her.

“I was afraid, you see.” Dorothea’s whisper was urgent. “I knew the
house but I didn’t know the people. There’d been one noise in the house
already, and I didn’t want to make another.”

“Noise?”

“Well, row, then. But it’s not a nice word. Mr Robert had forgotten
himself to the mistress in the afternoon. Poor fellow! When I heard he
was dead I was sorry but I could never have forgiven him for the things
he said to her that day if he’d lived to be a hundred. There I was,
wondering what on earth I ought to do, when I heard her coming across
the hall. I knew it was her. I’d know her step anywhere. But I couldn’t
believe my ears. I hadn’t heard her walk like that for twenty years. She
was brisk, you know, walking like a proper little madam. I ran to the
top of the stairs and called her softly because I didn’t want to rouse
the house. ‘Is that you?’ I said. ‘Yes,’ she said and her voice was
young too. I thought I was out of my mind. She was so angry, you see, it
had given her strength. I went down and found her and brought her up to
the fire. She was quite calm, not at all shaky as she was tonight, but
just calm and wilful and wonderfully clear in her mind. That was when
she told me to send the cable.”

“She told you _then_?”

“Of course she did.” Dorothea prodded her listener’s knee. “That was how
I got the address. I tell you she was ten years younger that night,
although she had to pay for it afterwards, poor dear. She was just like
she used to be, sharp as a needle, with every fact she wanted slap at
her finger tips. She remembered Mr Meyrick had given her the Hong Kong
cable address and that it was in her black book in her writing case. She
made me write out the message there and then. ‘Come home immediately.
Your presence vital in new development. Gabrielle.’ That’s how it ran. I
promised her I’d send it off the first thing the next day. That’s why I
sent Molly to the post office with it in the morning. I didn’t have time
to phone it or to run out myself with the mistress lying there
exhausted.”

“So Molly sent it? That’s how the inspector heard about it? Is that why
you dismissed her when Robert was found?”

Dorothea sniffed.

“Yes, that was a silly thing to do,” she said. “I lost my head. When he
was found I lost my head. I couldn’t forget that she’d been about that
night. I don’t know what I thought, so don’t ask me. I only felt that I
couldn’t have the poor dear questioned, and the simplest thing to do
seemed to be to get rid of the girl before she remembered anything. I
went down and packed her off. In my young days there’d have been no
questions asked and no reasons given. I’d forgotten how things have
changed. There was such a setout you’d have thought I was getting rid of
a member of Parliament, let alone a housemaid. I called attention to the
whole thing instead of hiding it up. I had to come and tell the mistress
and she acted us both out of it, the wonderful little old dear.”

The quiet voice ceased and there was silence in the room for a minute or
so before Frances could bring herself to ask the question which was
nagging at her.

“Dorothea,” she began cautiously at last, “you didn’t leave Gabrielle
today, did you?”

“While she was in the picture gallery?”

“Yes.”

“Only for a quarter of an hour. She was sitting in a chair and she
dropped off to sleep, or I thought she did. You can’t tell with her
these days; she’s so artful. I knew she wouldn’t be disturbed there and
I wanted to make sure they hadn’t forgotten the fire in her bedroom. I
went back the way we came, past Mr Meyrick’s door and down the back
stairs. I got out into the yard and popped into our kitchen here. I
talked for rather a long time with Norris and the other two. He said
he’d just been up to see to the fire and it went through my mind that he
might have been listening through that door in the cupboard.

“I don’t know how much you can hear through that. Anyway, they pretended
to be all agog to hear what had happened at the meeting and I was
careful not to tell them. I suppose I was talking for over ten minutes,
maybe quarter of an hour, maybe more. When I came back they’d found Mr
Lucar and all the excitement was on.”

“Was Granny awake when you got to her?”

“Yes. She was walking about the room. She was as bright as she is
tonight. I noticed the change in her. It’s almost as if these upsets
give her a new interest in life.”

Her voice died away and she sat thinking. After a while she laughed.

“I’m daft,” she said. “She couldn’t. It’s silly. Even if her poor sweet
mind had gone and she’d taken it into her head to do something so
wicked, she couldn’t. She hasn’t the strength. It’s us, Miss Frances.
We’re the lunatics. She couldn’t do it. Besides, what with?”

Frances did not speak at once. A quotation from the flowery history book
of her nursery days had come sneaking into her mind. “If but the blades
be sharp enough a child can drive it home, my Lord Burleigh.”

“Would she do it?” she demanded bluntly. “I mean, just supposing she
could. Would she? Can you conceive her doing it?”

Dorothea’s reply was startling.

“Not unless she thought she was so old it didn’t matter,” she said.

“Didn’t matter?” said Frances, aghast.

“What happened to her afterwards. Very old people are funny, miss.
They’ve got so used to the idea of dying that they get to behaving sort
of wild, like people going to emigrate. She’s so clear in her mind that
this life is over for her that she’s half living in the next. She’s
still young in her heart, you see, still adventuresome. She’s impatient,
that’s what she is. I don’t know what she might do.”

“But she couldn’t . . .”

“No, my dear, she couldn’t, thank God.” Dorothea dried her eyes with a
single wipe from the flat of her hand. “I feel better,” she remarked
naïvely. “It’s keeping it all to oneself that makes one fanciful. Once
it’s in words you do know it’s silly.”

“Yet someone did it,” Frances said slowly.

“Eh? Yes, yes, someone did it.” Dorothea sounded almost casual. “Still,
_she’s_ safe from trouble, that’s all I care. She’s sitting up by the
fire. She’s wonderfully wilful and very bright again tonight. I’ll just
go along to see how Miss Phillida is. You go along to your granny, my
dear. Tell her I’m just coming.”

Frances followed her to the door. They parted on the landing and the
girl turned towards Gabrielle’s room. She walked heavily. Dorothea might
be able to trot off happily, but for her own part she found the new
details terrifying. Why had Gabrielle been wandering about the house on
the night that Robert died?

She entered the dark alcove where Meyrick’s door was and had already
raised her hand to tap on the panelling when she heard Gabrielle
talking. The high thin voice was raised authoritatively and the words
came clearly through the wood and leather.

“All my life I have done what I thought best. I see no reason to change
that behaviour. Have you ever been told that you look like the prince
consort?”

Frances felt her scalp crawling. As far as she knew there was no one in
the house who could possibly be with the old lady.

She opened the door abruptly and went in. Gabrielle confronted her. She
was seated facing the door in a high-backed chair which had been
temporarily lined with her enormous swansdown shawl. The lights were
shaded and the glow from the coal fire picked out the brilliance of her
black eyes and the rings on her fingers.

At first glance Frances thought that she was alone and talking to
herself and she was just facing the new problem which such a discovery
might well present when the wing chair standing on the rug between them
shot back a little as a man rose up out of it.

“David!”

His sudden appearance was so unexpected that she forgot herself entirely
and her voice rose. They both hushed her vigorously.

“I’m sorry,” she whispered, reddening at the injustice which such
treatment always seems to contain, “but I thought you were . . .”

“Arrested.” Gabrielle supplied the missing word. “But he seems either to
have been let out or to have escaped.” She let her voice rise
enquiringly but he did not explain. He stood on the hearthrug, his hands
in his pockets and his head bent.

Frances glanced at him anxiously and found him watching her
thoughtfully, without smiling.

“I’ve been asking Mrs Ivory to shut the house,” he said. “Split up. Pack
the servants off. If Phillida’s ill let her go into a nursing home. You
can go to a hotel, Frances. Mrs Ivory herself can return to Hampstead.
Get the house empty.”

“What? Tonight?”

“Oh, lord, yes, it must be tonight.”

“But, David, we can’t.” In her reaction against the impracticability of
the suggestion Frances forgot for a moment how extraordinary it was that
he should be there at all. “We can’t,” she repeated. “Anyway, we’re not
allowed to. We’re all to stay here until Inspector Bridie has finished
with the gallery and can come over and interview us all again. There’s a
policeman in the front hall and another on the back door now. Didn’t you
see them as you came in?”

“No. I—er—I didn’t come that way.”

“I heard his tapping at the cupboard,” explained Gabrielle calmly. “I
thought it was the police so I let him in. He has not cared to explain
how he came to be in my son’s private office.” There was no rebuke in
her tone. She made the statement as if it referred to some minor
unconventionality into which she was too polite to enquire.

Frances glanced at the small cupboard beside the fireplace. The door was
bolted again now. She could see the brass catch clearly against the
panelling. David followed her eyes gloomily but he made no comment, and
it was the old lady who returned to the main subject.

“Quite impossible,” she said, resettling herself. “And if it weren’t I
should still stay. There is something I want to know.” Her voice had a
new tone in it and he turned to her. For a moment he looked positively
frightened, but as his eye took in her frailty and her great age his
alarm died a little.

“I hope you’re not thinking of turning detective, Mrs Ivory,” he
murmured.

The old Gabrielle appeared to consider the suggestion.

“No,” she said at last. “No. But I’m a very inquisitive old woman, and
in all this dreadful business there is one thing that strikes me as very
strange indeed. First, Madrigal, poor wretched creature, is found dead
with a wound in his chest. Then that abominable little baggageman dies
in the same way. As far as any reasonable person can see both crimes
were committed by the same person, who must be someone who is still
either in this house or in the gallery next door. So much is obvious.
However, the thing that seems so entirely extraordinary to me is this:
both houses have been searched over and over again and yet no weapon has
been found. I find this so peculiar that I have given my mind to it, and
an idea has occurred to me which may eventually explain a number of
things.”

The precise Victorian English and the conversational tone made the words
unexpectedly dramatic.

“I am not going to tell you or anyone else what it is,” she said,
“because if I am wrong then I have made a very serious and unjust
mistake. So I shall stay here until I find out for myself. What is the
matter, Mr Field?”

David’s eyes were warning and when he spoke his voice sounded dry.

“That’s a very dangerous statement. Have you made it to anybody else?”

The old lady peered at him and then turned sharply to glance at the
cupboard door beside her.

“No,” she said. “No, I have not. But you come to me with a suggestion
and I am explaining to you why I am not adopting it. Now, forgive me. I
am tired. Frances will take you downstairs.”

It was her usual dismissal, imperious and unanswerable. He moved
obediently but when he was halfway across the room he turned again.

“You mustn’t,” he said. “For God’s sake. Think of everybody else.”

The black eyes flickered in his direction, and for an instant both young
people saw her as she must have been at the height of her powers.

“One more day,” she said so quietly that her voice would not carry
through any panelling. “One more day.”

“What does she mean?” Frances whispered the question as they came out
into the alcove. His hand closed over her arm warningly. He did not move
but stood listening, holding her back in the shadow. No one was in
sight, but all around them the house was alive. David bent over her.

“Is there a fire escape to this house? Keep your voice down.”

Frances stiffened. Until that moment she had not taken Gabrielle’s airy
statement about his escape from arrest with any degree of seriousness.
He saw her expression and his eyes wavered.

“Sorry, Duchess,” he murmured, “but it can’t be helped. Where’s the bolt
hole?”

“Up here.” She took his wrist and drew him hastily across the narrow end
of the landing to the flight of steep stairs leading up to the third
floor. Neither of them spoke until they were out on the roof, standing
in a narrow valley beneath the shadow of a chimney stack. It was very
dark up there. The fidgety wind leapt on them avidly, snatching at their
clothes and blowing soot in their eyes.

Frances steadied herself in the guttering.

“You go straight along here,” she said huskily, ridiculously concerned
because her teeth were chattering. “Then over the parapet to the next
house—it’s only offices so there’s no one there now to hear you—then
the iron ladder goes down at the back of the house. You’ll have to drop
the last eight feet, but it’ll be all right if you’re careful.”

“I see. Thank you.” He did not move and she could not see his face.

“Well?” she said at last.

His hand found her shoulder and closed over it. He did not speak for a
long time but he rocked her gently, his fingers gripping her very tight.

“Come with me.”

“Where?”

“Holland. God knows what I’m letting you in for, but come and we’ll risk
it. . . . It’s pure selfishness on my part.”

“Why?”

He laughed explosively.

“Oh, darling,” he said, “at such a time! Are you coming?”

“How can I? Phillida’s ill, Gabrielle’s alone. I must stay with them.”

He let her go.

“Yes,” he said unexpectedly. “Yes, of course.” And then, with more
urgency than she had ever heard from him before: “Frances. Be careful.
Don’t hear anything. Don’t think anything. And for God’s sake don’t say
anything. Watch Gabrielle. Never let her be left alone, not for a
minute. Do you understand?”

“Yes. What are you afraid of?”

“I’m not.” He spoke passionately. “That’s the line you’ve got to drop.
Drop it. Rout it out. Forget it. Turn yourself into a mindless
vegetable. Don’t think. Don’t put two and two together. And keep
Gabrielle quiet. Put her to bed and lock the door with yourself on the
inside.”

“You’re going to Holland?”

He swore softly in the darkness.

“I shouldn’t have told you that. That’s the slip we all make. That’s
unforgivable. That’s the one thing you must never tell anyone. Never,
whatever happens. Promise. Word of honour.”

“Yes,” she said flatly. “Yes, of course. Word of honour.”

She heard him move irresolutely, and then unexpectedly he bent over and
kissed her, holding her so roughly that in spite of her fierce and
rather terrifying relief she was aware that he was hurting her. The next
moment he had left her and was clambering purposefully over the roofs.




                           CHAPTER SEVENTEEN


“THEY BROADCAST an unfortunately good description of him over the air in
the ten-to-twelve news last night. Silly chap. He can’t hope to get away
with, it. The country’s too small,” said Godolphin gloomily and pushed
his plate away.

The breakfast room at 38 Sallet Square was stuffy and the electric light
made the hour, which was noon, seem unlikely and in keeping with the
timeless confusion of the whole period. Frances, who was sitting on the
other side of the table, her chin in her hands and an untasted cup
beside her, thought of the previous midnight as an age away, an
undefined moment in a horrible and distant past. It had been twelve
hours of mounting strain. The house was in chaos. The domestic routine
had broken down utterly, and a sense of siege was everywhere.

On the news of the second crime the crowds in the street had returned in
greater numbers, and the heavy old-fashioned shutters barred over the
breakfast-room windows made a temporary barrier between the stricken
household and the sensation seekers standing patiently in the rain and
the wind of the square.

The meal was a formless hybrid, midway between breakfast and luncheon.
Mrs Sanderson had done what she could at a time when food seemed one of
the least important of life’s considerations.

The hall and landings had become foreign territory. The police possessed
them, newspapermen stormed them, and every now and again a strange nurse
in starched linen and sensible shoes crackled through them on her way to
the kitchen.

Inspector Bridie had made a thorough search of both houses, and in his
vocabulary the adjective had a particular meaning. His search had
included the space beneath the floor boards, the contents of the
mattresses, and the drains. So far it had been fruitless. The weapon
which had killed Robert Madrigal and afterwards Henry Lucar had
disappeared as completely and unsatisfactorily as if it had never
existed.

No one in the house had had anything faintly approaching a night’s rest.
The interminable questionings had gone on hour after hour and mere
nerves had given place to a state of grim endurance. Even Godolphin had
begun to show the scars of the ordeal. There was a white line of
excitement round his mouth, and when he limped about the hand which
gripped his stick was heavily veined under the yellow skin.

“Silly young ass,” Godolphin repeated under his breath and sat up when
he saw the spasm of pain flicker over her face. “Sorry,” he said
abruptly. “Wouldn’t have mentioned it if I’d known. I understood that
engagement of yours was a put-up job. I shouldn’t have said it for
worlds if I’d thought.”

He was looking at her with great interest in his dark eyes, and she
noticed, as one does notice irrelevant details in time of stress, that
the whites of them were still yellow from his fever.

“You’re kidding yourself, you know,” he said. “You’re young so you don’t
realise it. Love does get one but there’s nothing in it. All painters
have a sort of romantic glow round them, but they’re silly,
oversensitive beggars when you get to know them. Impractical, too. Look
at this wild flight of his. What’s he got to fear? There’s not a shred
of evidence against him that the police could prove. You’re well rid of
him. I don’t expect you to agree with me now but you will. You’ll see.
You’re a sensible girl. Besides, I mean to say, take love altogether. I
know it. It’s a tremendous thing while it lasts but it goes. That’s the
thing to remember about love. You love like hell for years and then you
see the woman again and you see her in a new light.”

Frances took a long deep breath. The full force of the famous
personality was like a blast from an oven. She felt dizzy and physically
sick.

He hoisted himself onto another chair nearer to her and, seeing him
prepare for a new attack, she drew back involuntarily.

“If only he had had the sense to sit tight,” he said. “Suppose it had
come to a trial. Wouldn’t you have backed him? Wouldn’t I? Wouldn’t
Phillida and even the old lady? Of course we would, if only to save our
own faces. A balanced chap would have seen that.”

It occurred to Frances that she was going to cry. The discovery appalled
her and she rose to her feet, choking. As she turned blindly to the
door, however, it opened and Miss Dorset appeared with Dorothea in tow.
Both women were exhausted and untidy. Miss Dorset conveyed a
dishevelment which was as much mental as any matter of coiffure or
shoestrings.

“I made her come down,” she said breathlessly. “She must eat something
or she’ll drop. You’ve got some coffee here, Norris says.”

“Of course we have.” Frances set a chair for the old woman as she spoke.
Dorothea was exhausted, but a lifetime’s training seemed to forbid her
to sit on more than two inches of the proffered seat, since she was in
company.

“I didn’t ought to be down here,” she grumbled, taking a cup grudgingly,
“but she is dozing now, though, and that Mrs Sanderson has promised to
stay with her. What a night it’s been. I don’t think she’s closed her
eyes once and it was all I could do to keep her in the room. It’ll kill
her in the end, this will. She’s got something on her mind, you know.
She’s overexcited. I thought she was going to fly out of the bed when
the police asked if Miss Dorset could come through the cupboard door.”

Both Frances and Godolphin looked up at this piece of information and
Miss Dorset flushed.

“The inspector thought it would be better if I avoided the street,” she
murmured. “The crowd is waiting, hoping to see a woman.”

Frances sat up. “Me?” she demanded.

Miss Dorset leant forward and laid a hand over hers.

“It’s Mr Field running away,” she said gently. “They don’t _think_, you
know. They just get hold of a dramatic idea. Never mind. It’s all going
to be all right. I’ve just heard and I had to come over. Mr Meyrick’s
been released and he’s coming back. He left this morning and we shall
have him here any time after four. I nearly broke down and cried when I
saw the message.”

She looked positively happy and the others exchanged glances. Dorothea
put the general thought into words.

“I’ll be most relieved to see him, but I don’t know what he can do, poor
man,” she remarked, sipping her coffee. “It’s past anyone doing much, if
you ask me.”

“But there’ll be someone to tell us what to do.” Miss Dorset sounded as
if she had nothing more to ask. Her confidence was so sublime that they
were encouraged in spite of themselves, and the atmosphere grew
momentarily less oppressive. Nevertheless they all started violently
when someone tapped on the door.

It was Bridie himself. He disconcerted everyone by saying nothing at
all, but he accepted Frances’ offer of coffee with a nod of alacrity.
Godolphin seized the opportunity to ask questions.

“Any news of Field yet?” he enquired, fixing the older man with
inquisitive eyes.

“Not a wor-rd of him, silly young chuggins.” The inspector seemed to be
in an ominously genial mood.

“Do you think you’ll get him?”

“Oh, yes, no doubt about that. It’s chust a question of time. It’s a
tickens of a chob to escape us.” Bridie dismissed the question as
ridiculous. “It’s these wretched chournalists who’re the bother,” he
added. “Most tenacious chaps. There was one on the roof chust now, and
no young lady to help him either.”

He laughed at Frances as he made the remark but ignored the colour which
came into her face. His manner altered abruptly, however, as he turned
to Dorothea.

“Where’s your mistress?” he demanded.

“Mrs Sanderson is with her, sir.”

“She is? Oh, well, she’s a sensible body. All the same . . .”

He broke off as the door opened and Inspector Withers put his head in.
His long face was lined with anxiety.

“There’s a young man out here says he must see Mr Godolphin on a matter
of life or death,” he said suspiciously.

“Really?” The explorer took his stick and hoisted himself to his feet.
“Who is it? What does he say?”

“He won’t speak.” Withers sounded irritable.

“I’ll come. Where is he? In the hall?”

Godolphin hobbled out at a great speed, and Withers followed him.
Evidently the residents of 38 Sallet Square were not to have private
interviews with any visitor that morning.

Bridie passed his empty cup to his hostess with engaging diffidence.

“I’m not a great drinker as a cheneral rule,” he remarked, “but a chob
like this makes one thirsty.” His new friendliness was disconcerting,
and Frances’ hand shook as she held the saucer. The rattling cup
attracted his attention and he smiled at her kindly. “Cheer up,” he
said. “It’s a fe-ear-rful business but we’re near-ring the finish.
You’ll all be able to sleep easy in your beds tonight without a chance
of being murdered there.”

“Can you say that definitely, Inspector?” Miss Dorset was leaning across
the table, her ugly light eyes eager.

Bridie looked at her squarely. “Quite definitely,” he said. “Four
o’clock, that’s the hour. We’ll all know a great deal more about this
chiggery-pokery at four o’clock, and by the way, Miss Dorset, for your
own infor-rmation, all the telephone lines in this house and the next
are tapped and have been for some time.”

The effect on the woman of this gratuitous piece of information was
astonishing. She grew very white, all except for her nose and the red
rims round her eyes. She closed her lips tightly and shrank back into
her chair.

The moment was saved most unexpectedly by a great bellow of laughter
outside the door as Withers and Godolphin came in together. Both men
were amused, Godolphin rather sourly so but the inspector guffawing
openly. Bridie regarded him with sober disapproval.

“Having a cholly good choke?” he enquired acidly.

“Yes sir.” Withers recovered his habitual gloom. “It was the chap’s
optimism,” he added and Godolphin laughed briefly.

“The fool of a motor salesman from the showrooms down the road,” he
said. “I’ve been considering a new Packard and they gave me a trial run
in it yesterday, as I told you. It was when I came back that I found the
house in uproar. Apparently I had promised to phone this youngster in
the morning but naturally I hadn’t given the matter another thought.”

“He got past the men on the door,” murmured Withers. “Some salesman.”

Godolphin grunted. “He won’t come back for a bit now,” he said grimly.
“That sort of thing always irritates me. Any man with a grain of
intelligence would have realised that this wasn’t the time to badger a
prospective customer.”

“It must mean a very big commission to him,” muttered Miss Dorset.

“Of course it is, considerable.” Godolphin was contemptuous. “That’s why
it’s so silly to jeopardise it.”

Bridie put down his cup with a rattle.

“Ah well,” he said, rising, “the young lad was an hour or so too early,
that’s all.”

“Four o’clock,” said Frances with a sigh.

“Four o’clock,” repeated the Scotsman, watching Miss Dorset.

Inspector Withers looked scandalised and Frances added a new piece of
information to her store. Bridie was giving away an official secret. She
wondered why.

“Oh, that’s zero hour, is it? I hadn’t heard that,” put in Godolphin.
“What are we to expect meantime?”

“Nothing, please God.” Bridie spoke fervently but was not rewarded for
his piety, for the door burst open almost immediately, admitting a very
angry woman.

Nurse King was a thickset woman with a dark-skinned face and heavy brows
meeting across her forehead. She was not a person who was used to
defeat, and her present state of indignation and alarm had also a
modicum of astonishment in it.

“I must resign,” she said. “If I’m to have no authority, if I’m to be
ordered here and there like a servant, if I’m to be called this and that
and turned out of my own patient’s room as if I were a paid spy, I must
go. That’s all there is for me to do. No one would stand for it and no
one can expect me to.”

“Of course not.” Frances was already halfway across the room towards the
woman. “Of course not, nurse. She’s ill, though. It’s the frightful
shock. Didn’t the doctor tell you? She doesn’t know what she’s saying,
I’m sure of that.”

“Even so, Miss Ivory, I’m entitled to a little consideration. I’ve had a
difficult time with Mrs Madrigal without being ordered about by a second
patient.”

“Chimminy!” Bridie upset a chair as he lunged forward. “Who are ye
talking about, woman?”

“Oh, I’m not complaining about my patient.” The nurse flushed a dusky
scarlet at the suggestion. “I’m not likely to mind anything my patient
says, I hope. But when one of the household comes in and orders me out
as if I were a probationer I do have something to say. ‘No listening at
the door, my good woman,’ she says. ‘Be off with you. No impudence.’
I’ve never been spoken to like it in my life.”

“Gabrielle!” Frances ejaculated. “Mrs Sanderson must have left her.”

“Ma God!” The words broke from Bridie as he turned and fled out into the
hall with Withers behind him.

His reaction was revealing and they all followed, swarming up the broad
staircase, yet a new fear clutching at their skirts. They passed Withers
on the landing. He was in a corner talking bitterly in a low voice to
the plain-clothes man who had been on duty outside the sickroom. The
detective was grovelling, clearly incapable of explaining how it was
that an old woman should have been able to intimidate him.

The bedroom door was open and they filed in. Phillida was lying back
among the pillows, her face as white as the linen, while on the end of
the bed, calm, obstinate and completely mistress of the situation, sat a
Gabrielle whom no one had ever seen before. She had shrunk, settling
down inside herself until she looked like a netsuke, swathed in white
lace wool. Her frailty was no longer her dominant feature. Instead she
had become minute and vital, a concentrated essence of herself. Her face
was so wrinkled that it was ageless and unreal, and her black eyes were
bright and dangerous.

Bridie stood looking at her with something that was almost like
superstition, and they realised for the first time how much the incident
had shaken him. Frances looked anxiously at Phillida, but the dull-eyed
woman in the bed made no sign of recognition and she called the nurse,
who bustled over to the bed and put her foot down after a single glance.
The room must be cleared instantly, she said, or she could not be
responsible.

Her anxiety impressed even Bridie, who cleared his throat.

“We’ll have to have an end of all this,” he said, speaking slowly and
quietly. “For a few hours I’ve got to have ye all under ma eyes and
since I can’t be in two places at once I’ll have ye all together,
everybody, servants and all. We’ll all go down to the drawing room and
we’ll set there together until four o’clock.”

“Not _her_.” Dorothea forgot her place for the first time in a life in
what she was pleased to call “gentleman’s service.” Her square face was
suffused with blood and her body shook with the violence of her protest.
“She shan’t. She goes down there over my corpse. She’s old. She’s not
herself. Her mind’s not right. She’ll work herself up and say things she
doesn’t know she’s saying. I’ll take her back to her room. She’s
fanciful. She’s old. You can’t judge her like anyone else. You take her
over my dead body.”

“Thank you, Dorothea, that will do.” The thin voice was icily amused. “I
shall certainly go down to the drawing room, as the inspector suggests.
There are one or two things I should very much like to say.”

Bridie was looking at her in undisguised astonishment.

“I don’t think you were very well, ma’am, last time I had a chat with
you,” he ventured.

Gabrielle favoured him with one of her more exquisite smiles.

“Perhaps I was not,” she said. “Age is a curious malady, my dear man.
There are times when one almost recovers from it.”

Bridie’s eyes flickered, and the old lady laughed as if she had made a
conquest.

A slight movement on the other side of the room caught the policeman’s
attention, and he turned round just in time to see Miss Dorset edging
towards the door. She stopped dead in her tracks as he called her and
turned to face him defiantly, like a child.

“You’ll hardly need me,” she said.

“Chust the same,” he said, “I’d like ye to be there.”

“But I can’t. I have an appointment just after three-thirty.”

“Ye’ve got an appointment now. If ye were thinking of meeting Mr Meyrick
Ivory’s train, I’m sorry but I’ll have to ask ye to change yer mind.”

She hesitated and for a moment it looked as if she were thinking of
defying him. He watched her thoughtfully.

“There’s an extension telephone in the drawing room,” he said. “I’ll
arrange for all your business calls to be put through there.”

The simple offer, with the slight emphasis on the word “business,” had
its effect. Miss Dorset stood blinking at him, a foolish expression on
her face.

“Very well,” she said huskily and turned slowly out of the room, a
crushed and submissive figure.




                            CHAPTER EIGHTEEN


THEY TROOPED into the drawing room like an old-fashioned household going
in to family prayers. Norris turned on the lights, for the winter
afternoon was dark, and the haste with which Mrs Sanderson and Molly
pulled the heavy window curtains reminded everyone afresh of the patient
crowds outside.

Gabrielle took the largest chair by the fire and Dorothea stood beside
her.

Frances sat in a corner of a chesterfield, with Godolphin perched
stiffly on the arm beside her, while Miss Dorset placed herself next to
the occasional table where the telephone stood. The three servants sat
together near the door.

It was when Bridie had taken up his own position behind the Louis XV
table, with Withers at his elbow, that Frances first became nervously
aware of the clock. The gilt sunburst with the garden face was as
familiar to her as the room itself, but today it was a new and menacing
thing.

It was half-past two, later than she had thought, and she moved uneasily
in her quilted corner. There was a tremendous sense of constriction in
the room. No one breathed easily, and the entire gathering was aware of
that tingling sensation in the soles of the feet which comes just before
the worst is told.

Bridie’s sibilant voice cut into their thoughts.

“It’s against all the rules of police procedure for me to question any
witness in front of another,” he was saying pleasantly. “There’s
absolutely no question about that. However, I’m not proposing to keep ye
here in silence until four o’clock so I’ve decided to give ye a sor-rt
of cheneral lecture on the two crimes, and when I come to any bit that
I’m not so sure about then I shall expect your intelligent coöperation.”

His simple words and confiding smile were so naïve that they were almost
deceived, all, that is, save Frances, who had seen the old Scot in this
particular dangerous mood once before.

“Noo,” he said, glancing about him with the bland affability which was
so misleading, “since ye’re none of ye professionally skilled in the
ar-rt of investigation I’ll commence ma observations with a few cheneral
remarks. In this particular affair, which is all the more shockin’ to ye
since ye’re all so close to it, I want ye to get into your minds a
lar-rge square of boar-rd on which there is a half-finished chigsaw
puzzle. Ye can see by the shape of the hole which is left that ye need a
human heid to complete the picture.”

He paused and his bright eyes swept round the gathering with horrific
good humour.

“A human heid with a recognisable face.”

It was an oddly unpleasant simile and, coming on top of the strain which
was already so great, its effect was unnerving. Bridie seemed quite
pleased with it, however, for he continued happily.

“The missing pieces of the chigsaw are held by different indiveeduals,
and most of them are in this room, no question about that. Each pairson
conseedering his own piece of puzzle is confronted by a wee mystery, but
as soon as they’re all on the table together the little chuts and
corners will begin to fit and gradually the face will appear. It’s
cholly inchenious.”

“Cholly good work, sir,” murmured Godolphin under his breath to Frances,
who did not hear him. Her eyes were on the clock. Fifteen minutes gone
already.

“Hooever,” Bridie swept on, “the fir-rst thing to do is to define the
outline of the heid. That’s the main conseederation. The background of
the picture has to be built up fir-rst, and the main ar-rt of this piece
of construction is to weed out all unnecessary matter—mebbe I’m too
complicated for ye?”

“On the contrary.” Gabrielle’s voice was sharp. “We find you
extraordinarily clear. Go on.”

“I’m glad to hear it, ma’am,” said Bridie with what appeared to be
innocent satisfaction. “We’ll now descend to the parteecular. Over three
weeks ago Mr Robert Madrigal disappeared. A week later his body was
discovered and on the same day Henry Lucar sailed for New York. As soon
as he received wor-rd of the occurrence he returned, hooever, of his own
free will. He was examined by the police and permitted to go home. The
following day he called a conference of the relations and associates of
Robert Madrigal and was himself mysteeriously mur-rdered by the same
weapon which had killed his chief. This perneecious act took place only
a few minutes after that gathering had broken up and while most of it
was still in the gallery. That’s an undisputed fact. We noo cut out the
unnecessary factor-r. The murder of Henry Lucar does not merit our
immediate conseederation and I’ll tell ye for why. Henry Lucar was a
blackmailin’ scoundrel, no question of that. We have evidence to show
that during his lifetime Robert Madrigal paid out conseederable sums of
money which coincided in amount and date with sums paid into Lucar’s
account. We also know that chust before Mr Madrigal disappeared he and
Lucar were both present in the gallery when one of Mr Field’s pictures
was slashed by an unknown hand. This was the last of several such
incidents and the inference is that Lucar did the mischief to for-rce Mr
Madrigal to face up to the fact that he was seerious in some last and
more ineequitous demand. It was a show of strength, d’ye see?”

“Yes.” Frances bit the word off hastily and the old man beamed at her.

“It’s a bit of a chumble,” he said, “but it soon straightens oot. Well,
Lucar was a blackmailer and so it was never likely that he did away with
Mr Madrigal before he’d squeezed all the chuice out of him. Moreover, I
am convinced that Lucar left England before he knew for cer-rtain that
Madrigal was deid. As soon as the news reached him he scuttled home,
proved his alibi beyond question, and set off to blackmail again. What
hold he had over Mr Madrigal we do not know, but we do know the almighty
secret he shared with someone else. He knew who had killed Madrigal, ye
see? As soon as he heard the man was deid he knew who had killed him,
and when he called that conference this time yesterday afternoon he made
the fact cholly plain to someone in that room. Whether he made it clear
to the murderer or to an accomplice of the murderer does not matter. He
let out that he knew the truth, and within an hoor he was deid himself.
That’s a simple story. We’ve got the motive and in time we’ll get the
pairson concer-rned, but for the moment we can disregar-rd Lucar
altogether. When we get the one heid filled in that picture will do for
the other chigsaw as well.”

He paused and looked up at the clock and every eye in the room followed,
him. It was five past three. The emotional temperature in the room was
rising to fever heat.

“The main picture,” continued Bridie calmly, “concairns Robert Madrigal,
as it always did. A great many of the chigetty bits are in ma own hands
and already I’ve built up ma surround. The fir-rst piece we need is a
question of motive. It’ll probably surprise one or two of ye to hear
that ye all had the best money motives in the wor-rld for killing
Madrigal.”

He made the final statement conversationally, as if he were relating
some interesting academic point, and hurried on before anyone could
protest.

“He was ruining ye all. Unless something drastic was done he’d have
steered the fir-rm into liquidation. Some of ye know this and some of ye
don’t, but for the purpose o’ clarity I’m going to have it all oot on
the table. Some years ago Robert Madrigal put his entire for-rtune into
the fir-rm of Ivory, which had suffered badly both in the war and in the
slump. By doing so he acquired very conseederable executive powers and
from the very fir-rst he proved a dangerous and unbusinesslike pairson.
Isn’t that so, Miss Dorset?”

“Yes, from the beginning.” The woman’s voice stuck in her throat and
came out hoarsely, so that they all looked at her.

“Mr Meyrick Ivory was deeply concairned, naturally,” Bridie went on
placidly. “In the airly days, when repeated cautioning proved of no
avail, he did his best to—shall we say—divairt Mr Madrigal’s attention
and even persuaded him to take par-rt in an overseas chourney. When he
retur-rned, however, he undid much of the good wor-rk which had been
accomplished in his absence. His chief fault seems to have been
chittering obstinacy. In most cases where a divairgence of opeenion
occurs between two par-rtners chenerally one o’ them raises capital to
buy the other pairson out, and this Mr Ivory seems to have attempted
several times in the past two years. Hooever, Mr Madrigal was always
obstinate. Even in the face of his losses he stuck to his conveection
that it was Mr Ivory’s consairvatism and not his own unorthodox goings
on which was lettin’ the fir-rm doon. His wife implor-red him to be
reasonable, but he refused and there the matter stood when Mr Ivory went
to China. He had lechitimate and important business there, don’t forget
that. A very fine collection o’ paintings on silk, the property o’ the
impeerial government, were aboot to come into the mar-rket and he was
anxious to be on the spot. Meanwhile Mr Madrigal remained in charge. Wi’
his senior par-rtner away he became more and more deeficult. He drew
large sums out of the business, which we now see went directly to Lucar,
and his cheneral behaviour caused conseederable alar-rm wherever it was
understood.”

His soft voice ceased for a moment, and he took out his watch and laid
it on the table before him, so that the lid of the hunter case screened
its face from the nearest of them.

“Well,” he said, “there are few things more demoralising than to see
one’s bread and butter deleeberately wasted by a fool over whom one has
no control. Some fools can be managed. They can be inveigled or startled
into common sense. But there is one type o’ fool who is impossible. By
hook or by crook he has got hold o’ the tiller o’ the boat and his
temperament is such that he’ll run her on the rocks rather than let
anyone else take a hand at steer-ring. That is the kind of fool who
makes the meekest among us tur-rn to thoughts o’ violence. A great
fir-rm has as many traditions as a great school or a great regiment, and
it often inspires the same kind of chealous loyalty. I only mention this
because there were quite a number of pairsons intimately concairned with
the fir-rm who knew the real state o’ affairs. Miss Dorset knew, of
course. So did Mrs Madrigal. And so did you, Mrs Ivory, unless I’m
mistaken.”

“Yes, I knew,” said old Gabrielle quietly. “I knew.”

If Bridie was pleased by the admission he did not show it. Like the
famous heathen Chinese, whom he was beginning to resemble more and more
at every dragging moment, his smile was childlike and bland.

“It wouldn’t surprise me to hear-r that ye confided yer worries to your
lifelong pairsonal attendant.”

“I knew,” said Dorothea stolidly and regarded him with unwinking eyes.

“And _you_.” Bridie swung round on Norris. “You’ve been in sairvice here
for twenty years. Mebbe the situation was not unknown to you.”

Norris staggered to his feet. He was green with nervousness and his
words slurred and bubbled over each other.

“I have enjoyed Mr Meyrick’s confidence for a number of years, sir. I
think I did know a little of—of the matter.”

“Ha!” Bridie’s eyes glanced from his own watch to the clock and back
again. It was ten past three. “Mr Meyrick, he knew. Mr Meyrick Ivory
knew. He was the principal pairson involved. He went off to China; that
is to say he left England four-rteen weeks before Madrigal met his
death. When I was a young man China was as far away as the stars,
almost, and even noo a great many of us are inclined to think of it as a
remote continent only vaguely connected with the Wester-rn hemispheere.
However, with the coming of the new aeroplane distance has ceased to
exist, as ye might say. Let me read you a few interesting facts. By
Impeerial Airways Hong Kong to Bangkok takes four-rteen hours only. From
Bangkok to Calcutta the flying time is nine and a half. From Calcutta to
Karachi is another nine hours, and it is possible to fly from Karachi to
Southampton by ordinary passencher plane in less than three days. This
is not evidence. It’s chust another little bit o’ the chigsaw which may
not fit in with the rest and I only . . .”

“I protest.”

The formal yet melodramatic objection from the other side of the room
shook the already electric atmosphere with explosion force and they all
turned to look at Miss Dorset, who had risen, her face patched red and
white and her lips dangerously unsteady. In the moment of absolute
silence which followed the telephone on the table beside her began to
ring. Bridie smiled.

“Take yer call,” he said.

They watched her as she took up the receiver and saw her hand tremble
and the blank, frozen expression growing on her face as she listened.

“Yes,” she said. “Yes, Miss Dorset here. Yes, I did enquire. Messrs
Ivory Limited, Sallet Square. Yes. Yes. Yes. I see. Yes. Thank you.”

She put down the receiver very slowly and the click of the disconnecting
wires was heard clearly all over the room.

“Well?” Bridie enquired. “And did ye get your answer?”

She tried to speak but gave it up and nodded.

“And your suspeecions were correct?”

“I—I—Oh, I don’t know. Don’t ask me.” Miss Dorset collapsed in her
chair and covered her face with her hands.

Bridie regarded her with soft-eyed sympathy which might or might not
have been genuine.

“Poor body,” he said, adding almost without punctuation, “we noo have to
conseeder the night o’ the crime. The last pairson known to have seen
Robert Madrigal alive is David Field.”

Although she had been waiting for it the name jolted Frances unbearably
and again she looked at the sunburst clock and saw that the gilt hands
had reached the bottom of the circle and were creeping up again. Bridie
glanced at her thoughtfully and continued, his sibilant accent caressing
each word as it left his mouth.

“Ye all know what happened. Mr Field came to talk to Mr Madrigal about
his engagement to Miss Frances Ivory and both men went into the garden
room together where the blinds were not doon. What some of ye may not
know is that Henry Lucar joined them there and he and Mr Field had a few
wor-rds. Not unnaturally Mr Field objected to Henry Lucar’s inclusion at
such a delicate conference. Lucar had a wretched manner which charred on
Mr Field’s susceptibeelities and he disposed of him pretty sharply.
Lucar went. Field is a for-rmidable pairson for all his arteestic
profession, and the wee ratty Lucar soon took to his heels. What
happened next is parteecularly interesting. Madrigal, frightened at the
way Lucar had been treated, apprehensive because of the hold the man had
over him, ye see, lost his heid entirely and said something to Field. I
have the exact wor-rds here. According to the evidence which I have
collected Madrigal tur-rned to Field and said: ‘Ye’ve waited a long time
for a woman wi’ money and now ye’re not taking any chances, are ye?’”

He paused and glanced round the room.

“Not a very nice obsairvation.”

“My God, how like him,” murmured Godolphin. “David hit him, I suppose?”

“He did.” Bridie nodded his approval at the right answer. “He hit him on
the chaw, scraping his own knuckles and putting the man clean out for an
instant so that he fell on the floor. At least that’s Field’s story. But
Miss Ivory herself, who happened to be in the yar-rd about that time or
a few seconds after, said she saw the two of them standing talking.
Would ye like to retract that statement, Miss Ivory? It’s very clear why
ye made it.”

“Yes, I would.” Frances made the admission huskily and Bridie nodded at
Withers, who began to write.

The Scot went on.

“This method of sifting the pieces is unor-rthodox but it’s remarkably
effeecient. We’re getting on verra nicely with our afternoon’s
divairsion,” he observed. “The shape o’ the heid is taking place before
our eyes. To retur-rn to the two men in the garden room: there was
Madrigal lying in the chair where Field had lifted him, a disfiguring
contusion swelling up on his face. There was Field standing before him,
looking down.”

The phrase touched Frances through the numb wretchedness which was
slowly consuming her. If David had not made a dash for it. If only he
had done what even Godolphin saw was the intelligent thing and had
stayed to face the enquiry. She looked at the clock again. Twelve
minutes. Only twelve minutes.

Bridie was proceeding with his unhurried narrative.

“Accor-rding to his story Field went out into the hall and fetched
Madrigal’s hat and coat. He also tur-rned out the hall lights because
they intended to go out the other way. Madrigal was naturally anxious
not to be seen in his condeetion and Field was not keen on the story
being broadcast either, for he was an impulsive chap wi’ a reputation
for hittin’ oot. The arrangement was that they should go down to a
doctor together to get the face patched up a bit. Field left the hat and
coat in the room, pulled down the blinds, and then went upstairs to say
good night to his young lady, a fact which she corroborates. He was with
her a matter of five minutes and then he came doon to the room again.”

He paused and looked at them all consideringly.

“From this point,” he said, “his story becomes very impor-rtant, because
if it’s not true then there’s only one conclusion we can draw from his
lying. He says his hand was already on the gar-rden-room door when he
hear-rd Madrigal speaking to someone inside. The wor-rds were quite
distinct and he remembered them. According to Field, Madrigal said, ‘Why
on airth did ye come here at this moment of all times?’ I’ll repeat the
phrase. ‘Why on airth did ye come here at this moment of all times?’
Well, Field took it for granted that it was Lucar who had come back, and
since, so he says, he’d become pretty fed up with the two of them, he
went off home and left Madrigal to get his other friend to take him
along to a doctor. That is Field’s statement, and you may feel as I did,
that it is highly unsatisfactory, but we mustna forget that Miss Ivory
came running from the yar-rd because she thought there was someone out
in the wee shed down there, and that someone could not have been Lucar,
because of Miss Dorset’s evidence. He was accounted for at that time.
Still, Field admits that he handled the hat and coat and that is highly
seegnificant. Field got the hat and coat out of the lobby across the
hall. Noo, anyone might have seen him do that and this whole story might
have been an invention of his to cover that conteengency. I can’t get it
out o’ ma heid that the mur-rderer, whoever he or she was, saw in the
absence of the hat an’ coat a remarkably good way to ensure that the man
would not be sairched for in the hoose. The mur-rderer threw the hat and
coat into the cupboard after the deid man.”

“No,” said Gabrielle. She was always more alive at night, and now her
fine hard voice was almost young. “No,” she repeated. “Most of what you
have said is excellent, Inspector. I congratulate you. But on that point
you are wrong. I know that because I put the hat and coat over the poor
wretched man myself.”

“You didn’t! You didn’t! You don’t mean it! You don’t know what you’re
saying!”

Dorothea’s outburst shook the room while it still was tingling, and the
soft chatter of the ornate clock, racing to keep pace with time, was
still loud in every ear.

The very old woman in the wing chair made a sound. It was a thin, soft
tinkle of amusement, as if a ghost had laughed.

“Dear,” she said cajolingly, “my dear, dear Dorothea, you don’t think I
killed the poor vulgar little man, do you? Both of them? I? Sit down.
Sit down, Dorothea. The inspector is doing his puzzle and I must
contribute my piece. I went downstairs that night. It was my first
evening in my old home and I was restless. Dorothea left me sitting up
by the fire and I began to remember all sorts of things, things that had
just happened and things that had happened long ago. I was very angry
with Robert. He had been very rude to me and I was worried about his
attitude towards my girl Frances and that odious little camel man.”

Her voice was clear and strong and very graceful, but she glanced up at
the clock once or twice and frowned because her sight would not reach
it. Bridie did not dare to interrupt her. She had shocked all the
blandness out of him, and he stood looking at her as if he expected her
to produce a cauldron and broomstick before his eyes.

“I got up and walked about my room first,” she said. “I found I was much
stronger than I had supposed and it occurred to me that I could move all
over the house if I wanted to. God knows I knew it well enough. I made
up my mind I’d go down to Robert and talk to him. Until then I had not
felt strong enough to give him a serious lecture, but that night, after
the quarrel in the afternoon, I felt quite capable of managing him or
anyone else, so I went.”

She paused and in their minds’ eye they saw her, a little bundlesome
figure in trailing woollen lace, bobbing lightly over the shining
parquet floor.

“It was dark,” said Gabrielle, “but I knew every inch of the dear old
house and I paused in the hall to listen. It was quite silent, but I saw
the garden-room door was open and that there was a light inside, so I
went along there.”

“God Almighty!” said Withers and shut his mouth with a snap immediately
afterwards.

Gabrielle ignored him.

“I pushed open the door a little wider,” she said, “and I went in. The
blinds were down and at first I thought the room was empty. Then I saw
the cupboard door was slightly open.”

“Open? Are you sure of that, ma’am?”

Both policemen spoke at once and she glanced up at them disapprovingly.

“Yes, slightly open. I went over and looked inside.”

She stopped and shook her head.

“Poor fellow,” she said, adding typically, “so undignified and
grotesque.”

“Did you touch him?”

“I?” Her disdain made Bridie regret his question. “Of course not. It was
perfectly obvious that the man was dead. His jaw had dropped. I’ve seen
death too often to mistake it. I went across the room and sat down to
think. It was a very awkward situation. I am an old woman. Frances is a
young girl, and poor Phillida is a neurasthenic. Obviously none of us
was capable of handling the scandal of a police enquiry. There was only
one thing to do. I decided that Robert must wait until my son could
return to see to things.”

She made the outrageous statement with such simple egotism that no one
doubted her for an instant. Of course that was what she had done. How
exactly like her. In his astonishment Bridie forgot to look at the
clock, while the little hand crept nearer and nearer to the top of the
dial.

“It was then that I saw the hat and coat,” Gabrielle continued calmly.
“Naturally the idea occurred to me at once. Since the cupboard was
normally empty presumably it was seldom opened, and if Robert vanished
and his outdoor clothes went with him no one would look for him in the
house. I carried the heavy coat across to the cupboard and went back for
the hat and gloves. I placed them on his body quite reverently and then
I closed the door, using my shawl to cover my fingers. I rested for a
little while and then I went back to my room. When I switched off the
light I used my shawl again. I remember I was quite clearheaded and I
arranged with Dorothea to cable for Meyrick. I did not tell her about
Robert. It seemed to me that the fewer people there were who knew about
it the less morbid and unpleasant the situation became.”

“But what a ghastly secret to keep to yourself all those days, ma’am!”
Bridie was not reproachful so much as respectful.

Gabrielle met his eyes contemptuously.

“If you had lived when I did, my dear man,” she said bitterly, “you’d
have learned how to keep a great many hard secrets. That is what
disgusts me about this present age. You have no mental discipline. A
great many people sneer at the Victorians but no other period had our
_face_.”

“I believe you, ma’am,” murmured Bridie fervently and would have
continued had she not stopped him.

“Wait,” she said. “I have not finished yet. Some of your puzzle is
filled in, Inspector, but there are several important pieces which
remain before we can all see this recognisable portrait you talk about.
One of them is this. On the day that poor Robert’s body was discovered
by the servants the miserable little Lucar rushed away to America. At
first the inference to be drawn from that behaviour seemed perfectly
obvious to anyone who did not know how long Robert had been in the
cupboard, but to me it was quite incomprehensible. If Lucar had killed
Robert why had he not run away before? Then, as you have told us, it
became apparent that Lucar could not have known of the discovery of the
body at the time when he hurried out of the country. That does not
explain everything. There remains one of your vital pieces, Inspector.
Why did Lucar run away?”

The room was still quiet and Bridie was still looking at her when there
came from the hall the sound which brought them all to their feet, their
eyes on the clock. It was two minutes to four, and the deep voice in the
hall outside was familiar to most of them.

“Meyrick!”

Godolphin limped across the room and met the newcomer as the door swung
wide. Meyrick Ivory came in alone, although there was the ominous gleam
of silver buttons in the hall behind him. He was a heavy,
wide-shouldered man with a shock of white hair and the smooth ruddy face
of the squire rather than the Londoner. He kissed his daughter, nodded
briefly to the policeman, and hurried to his mother’s side.

“Oh, my poor little old girl,” he said. “Oh, darling, how are you?”

The old Gabrielle looked up at him with the first sign of tenderness
anyone had seen on her face. Her fine thin lips quirked.

“In full command, my boy,” she said distinctly. “In full command.”

Frances did not hear her. Ever since Bridie had made his dramatic
references to the new facilities for air travel an appalling possibility
had occurred to her. She glanced at the clock. It was almost four. The
hand was within a fraction of the vertical. She looked at Bridie
furtively. He was still watching the clock. Even while her eyes rested
on him, however, he turned his head and glanced towards the door. It was
opening quietly.

Two plain-clothes men appeared first and then, between them, pale and
dishevelled, with a portfolio under his arm, came David. He looked round
eagerly and, catching her eye, smiled wryly at her.

Gradually they all became aware of him. The babble of voices died
abruptly and there was a long silence. Meyrick, standing by his mother’s
chair, raised his head and stared coldly at the little group. Bridie
looked at David.

“Well?” he enquired.

David lifted his eyes, and they saw for the first time how deadly tired
he was. He opened his mouth and made the most unexpected and
incomprehensible reply.

“It was the one with the smallest moustache,” he said.

The senior plain-clothes man nodded his agreement. “As I told you on the
phone this morning, sir. We’ve got five good witnesses, with dates. The
depositions are here with the pictures.”

Bridie grunted his satisfaction and went over to the table where David
had placed the portfolio. Gabrielle leaned forward.

“Inspector,” she said, “I was asking a very pertinent question. Why did
Lucar run away? What else happened on the day that Robert’s body was
found?”

Her voice cut through the general murmur and every face was turned
towards her. Frances, her voice a youthful replica of Gabrielle’s own,
gave the answer like an echo.

“The papers came out with the news of Godolphin’s rescue.”

“Yes,” said Gabrielle softly. “Godolphin’s rescue was announced. That’s
why Lucar ran away.”

“That’s an interesting theory but I don’t follow it.” Godolphin limped
forward, his yellow face enquiring. “Why?”

“Chust possibly he was afraid of confr-rontin’ you,” remarked Bridie
from the table. He had unfastened the case and was studying what
appeared at a long view to be a large photograph. Suddenly he held it up
and they all saw it. It was the head of a Hindu in European clothes but
wearing a turban which had been painted on the gloss with process white.
He had a little dark moustache, and at first glance the man was
definitely Indian. However, there was something uncannily familiar about
the attenuated lines of the cheeks and the narrowness of the eyes.
Slowly every head in the room save one turned towards Godolphin. The
exception was Mrs Sanderson. She remained gaping at the photograph and
her triumphant cry shattered the silence, vindicating her obstinacy and
airing her insular ignorance in one revealing second.

“The nigger!” she said. “There you are, what did I tell you? That’s the
nigger I saw.”

Godolphin alone remained unimpressed.

“I see someone has been decorating my portrait,” he said casually.
“That’s you, I suppose, Field? Very ingenious, my dear chap, but I don’t
suppose it proves much, does it?”

“Five people at the Dutch Line Amsterdam Airport recognised it as the
passenger who arrived there on the day Robert was murdered, and who took
the early five o’clock plane out again on the following morning,” said
David slowly. “I’m sorry, ‘Dolly,’ but you could have done it in the
time.”

Godolphin laughed.

“Can any European remember the difference between two Indians?” he
enquired lightly.

Bridie did not frown but a shadow passed over his face and he beckoned
to Miss Dorset.

“When the Nestor Traders’ Protection Association phoned ye chust now in
response to your enquiry what did they tell ye?” he demanded. “Don’t be
frightened. Tell it in so many words. Like one or two other people you
became suspeecious when ye discovered that Mr Godolphin, who had left
England penniless, had come home from an unsuccessful expedeetion with
money enough for diamonds and expensive motorcars, so very sensibly ye
put the Association on to him. What did ye find out?”

“I found,” said Miss Dorset, speaking slowly and unsteadily, as if the
words were forced from her, “I found that the Bank of India guaranteed
him up to ninety thousand pounds, and—and had done so for some months
on the surety of someone called Habib-Ul-Raput.”

Godolphin whistled. The flippancy struck a false note, but he was still
standing as jauntily as his infirmity would let him in the centre of the
hearthrug.

“Partly true,” he said. “Raput Habib, of Penang, is a good friend of
mine. I did him a service and he guaranteed me when I came home. The few
months’ story is an extra thrown in by your trade association friends
for luck. Besides, while I admire your combined ingenuity, I’m afraid
you’re not going to get _my_ face fitting into your blasted puzzle. Why
on earth should I go to these energetic lengths to kill Robert in
England? Believe me, if I’d wanted to do the tick in I should have had
much more opportunity in Tibet. Hang it, I saved his life, didn’t I?”

“Did you?” In spite of its quietness Gabrielle’s question was menacing.
“Did you? When I first heard that story of your heroism, Mr Godolphin,
it struck me as a plagiarism. When I saw you again, again I wondered. In
my time I have met the kind of man who sacrifices himself to save his
friends, and he has not been your kind. He has been a great,
simple-hearted, slightly sentimental sort of man, a hero, a pioneer; if
I may use such an old-fashioned expression, a noble man; but he has
never been a sharp-witted, clever, energetic man like you, Mr Godolphin.
The story of your heroism was the story that Robert told. It was the
kind of slavish imitation of the real thing which was typical of
Robert.”

The old voice faded, but as Godolphin bent towards her she went on
again, gathering speed and strength.

“I wonder if the real story was not more like this? In the extreme
situation which Robert painted far too vividly for it not to have been
true, when you were a serious burden with your injured leg, when you had
to be carried every step, when the natives showed dangerous signs of
wanting to desert, when Robert’s only support was the miserable Lucar,
who was even more of a physical coward than he himself, I wonder if
then, when you are said to have made your heroic sacrifice, I wonder if
you did nothing of the kind.”

Her voice sank again until they could only just hear it, a monotone of
deadly common sense.

“I wonder if that story was a story of great heroism or a story of great
cowardice. I wonder if Robert _left you_, Mr Godolphin. I wonder if
Robert gave you a blanket and a tin or two of provisions and left you
screaming to him in the snow. I wonder if he dragged Lucar on with him
and when they returned to safety remembered the magnificent old story of
gallantry to cover his cowardice. And I wonder if that was the hold
which Lucar had over him, Mr Godolphin.”

The man was gaping at her. There were little beads of sweat on his
forehead beneath the line of his hair.

“Witchcraft,” he said, but the laughter which should have been in the
word was not convincing. “My God, a genuine witch at last! Well, even
so, suppose you’re right. Suppose by some misguided miracle you happen
to have hit on something of the truth. Prove it! Prove he left me. Prove
I starved and froze and rotted for three days before, by the grace of
God, a gang of priests picked me up. Prove I won their confidence. Prove
they nursed me. Prove they fitted out a new expedition and that I got to
Tang Quing and came back over the pass with enough stuff to buy old
Raput Habib for life. Prove I came to England with his papers after I
had found that Robert had finished his fine work with a master stroke
and had married Phillida. Prove that with Raput Habib’s help I worked
out a cast-iron scheme to pay him back what I owed him. Prove I hid in a
shed in the yard. Prove I killed him. Prove I killed Lucar when he
practically told the whole lot of you what he knew. Prove I killed Lucar
after he whistled ‘Little Dolly Daydream’ to you until he was black in
the face. Little Dolly Godolphin Daydream, the song that he tortured
Robert with until to kill him was an act of Christian charity. Prove I
killed him, Mrs Clairvoyant Gabrielle. What with?”

The man was in a state of ecstasy, drunk with his own words and his own
impudent courage. His thin back was straight, his infirmity had
disappeared, he used his hands as he talked, and as he finished his
stick swung dangerously near her face.

A tiny hand shot out and caught the ferrule, twisting it sharply to the
left.

“I’ve been wondering about this for twenty-four hours. My husband had
one,” whispered the old Gabrielle, and Godolphin started back from her
with two feet of shining swordstick in his hand.




                            CHAPTER NINETEEN


THE BEST POLICEMAN in the world, and Bridie privately accredited himself
with that distinction, is not prepared for a conjuring trick at the
psychological moment of arrest.

For the brief part of a second Godolphin was at an advantage and he took
it. He reached the door and got it open before they leapt on him and
Frances heard for the third time the sharp, quick, purposeful footsteps
which had made such an indelible impression on her mind.

Norris, who was nearest, stuck out a foot to trip him and received a
flick which laid open his upper arm to the bone for his trouble. The two
men on duty in the hall came for the fugitive with their bare hands, as
their discipline so inconsiderately demands.

The younger, a heavy lout new-recruited from the Wolds, snatched at the
weapon and lost a finger. The older and more experienced tried a rugby
football tackle but was dodged by a man who knew the game as well as he
did, and Godolphin gained the square.

His fortnight’s enforced limping had not impaired his natural agility
and he took the steps lightly. Petrie, of the _Courier_, might have
stopped him, for he was directly in his path, but he had his own affairs
to attend to and by refraining he obtained one of the finest news
photographs of the year and a pictorial scoop for his paper.

It was the crowd who defeated Godolphin, and the symbolism of that
defeat was horribly right and just. His sin was against them, and the
civilisation which made their existence possible. In a civilised world
murder is a crime against the public and the man who commits it is
public property, doomed to public justice and public punishment.

When Godolphin appeared on the top of the steps the crowd by the
railings opposite were stolidly silent, lost in that state of morbid
contemplation which is so incomprehensible to the individual.

No crowd of this type is quick witted, and the wiry figure had cleared
the steps and plunged down the pavement towards the lights of St. James
before they grasped the significance of his appearance. However, the
moment one individualist among them came to life and leapt out into the
roadway the entire pack was galvanised as by a single electric shock.
The roar, which is primitive and hideous and like no other sound in the
world, went up from them and they surged in to pursuit.

They never caught him. The Piccadilly traffic did that as he made a wild
dash through it to reach, so the papers said afterwards, the car
showrooms on the opposite side of the road. The story at the time was
that he was attempting to duck into the doorway unseen by his pursuers
and afterwards to escape in the car for which he was already
negotiating, but that was only a theory. Whatever the truth was, the
traffic got him. It swept down the greasy road like an avalanche of red
and gold; busses speeding to keep to schedule, little black taxicabs as
mobile as flies on a ceiling and very like them, three-ton delivery
trucks and a shoal of private cars.

He was dead two seconds after he left the pavement. The two busses
shrieked and swayed and brushed one another in a hail of breaking glass
as the hatless figure rebounded from the radiator of the first and
pitched beneath the double wheels of the second.

The avalanche was still for a minute or two and the crowd pressed
forward shyly.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Frances and David went for a walk that night.

By eleven o’clock 38 Sallet Square was comparatively peaceful. Meyrick
and Miss Dorset were still over at the gallery in conference with the
head of the accounts department. Nurse King was nodding over a book in
Phillida’s room. Norris was in the kitchen nursing his wounded arm and
submitting to the ministrations of Molly and Mrs Sanderson. Gabrielle
lay in her monstrous bed beneath the tapestry and Matthew, Mark, Luke
and John blessed her with their needlework smiles, while Dorothea
muttered mingled prayers for her deliverance and imprecations at the
fate which should have had the impudence to decree that she should ever
have been in any danger.

The walk was David’s idea and Frances was grateful to him for it before
they had been out of the house ten minutes. Walking is a great sedative
and the peace and solidity of an old city at night tends to make
personal affairs, however terrible, seem small beside such ancient
tranquillity.

The sky had cleared and it was mild, with stars over the spires, and in
the air a strange damp exhilaration which is peculiar to London.

They walked along in silence for a long time, heading down the Haymarket
to Whitehall and the river. It was quiet once they left the theatre
centre, and they walked on wide pavements which they had practically to
themselves.

“Poor old ‘Dolly,’” David said suddenly. “You can almost forgive him,
you know. He had great provocation. And guts too,” he added after a
pause. “Terrific guts. The Lucar killing needed something like nerve. He
must have taken Phillida upstairs and gone straight along to Gabrielle’s
empty room, walked through the cupboard, done his work and come calmly
out again the same way, ambling downstairs to try the Packard. We forgot
how well he knew the house. Phillida must have guessed. Did she?”

“I think so.” Frances spoke soberly. “I think Gabrielle got it out of
her that time she sent the nurse away. I think that’s how she knew so
certainly. You knew too, didn’t you?”

“Yes,” he said. “I knew. I knew he’d killed Robert. I knew that night
when we were all at the Marble Hall. He accused me. Do you remember? He
worked himself up, described the scene, and suddenly gave himself away
by referring to Robert’s grey lock flapping in his eyes. I was so
startled that I thought he’d seen my face. Robert went grey in the last
six months of his life. He told me so. Besides, I saw it myself. He was
bleaching before one’s eyes.” He shook his head. “That whistle on the
telephone was a damnable torture of Lucar’s. Anyway, as soon as ‘Dolly’
mentioned the grey hair I knew that he was describing a picture that
he’d really seen. I didn’t know what to do. I was appallingly sorry for
Phillida and scared stiff generally. It put me on the idea, of course. I
began to work out how he could have done it, and it was so abominably
easy once one accustomed one’s mind to the size of the scheme. I knew he
did speak all these border dialects, and it dawned on me that if he had
somehow got out of Tibet with something really worth having there was no
reason why he shouldn’t have lain low for a bit while he disposed of the
stuff and turned it into cash. In the course of this he could easily
have heard the story of his own heroic death and Robert’s marriage and
have sneaked back into the country, done his killing and roared back
again in time to take part in a grand resurrection ceremony, the details
of which he had arranged beforehand. There were no Imperial Airways
sailing on the day after the murder, but as soon as I looked into the
Dutch Air Line arrangements the whole thing became staggeringly clear.
He could do it in six days.”

He paused and shook his head.

“Lucar’s return pulled me together,” he said, “and as soon as I saw what
was going to happen there I knew I must get busy. I was hours and hours
too late, of course.”

“I saw you,” she remarked unexpectedly. “I saw you leave the gallery
just as the excitement started, just as Lucar’s body was discovered.”

“Did you? That shook the Duchess up a bit, didn’t it?” He was grinning
at her with his old lazy sophistication and she felt comforted. “I’d
been down to the framing department. The foreman there has a very fine
collection of celebrities pinned up on the wall and I thought he might
have a better photograph of Godolphin than the two or three I’d got from
the news agency. However, I wasn’t lucky and I had to use what I had. It
was a simple, rather childish idea. Working on the theory that when Mrs
Sanderson said ‘nigger’ she might easily mean a high-caste Hindu whose
ancestors were discussing theology while her own were still leaping from
twig to twig, I simply took out my box of paints and decorated half a
dozen press photographs of ‘Dolly’ with various turbans and fancy
moustachings. It was hardly a disguise at all. That’s why it was so
successful. He was quite right when he said what European can tell the
difference between two Indians. The ordinary casual observer simply sees
a dark chap in a turban. Well, I was in the thick of my art work when
the police came round with the news about Lucar and started asking a lot
of suspiciously intimate questions. I was jittering with terror. I’m no
hero, you know. I spilt every bean I had. I think they believed me in
the end. Old Cholly Good Chob did anyway, when they brought me round to
see him in the gallery, or he wouldn’t have let me go in to Gabrielle
through the cupboard. He was listening through the door, you know. I
think she knew he was there. However, he wouldn’t hear of me going off
to the Dutch airport to verify my theories. That’s why I had to cut and
run for it. He wanted to talk to Mrs Sanderson first. I told him it was
too damned dangerous, with ‘Dolly’ going berserk in the place, and I
think he must have seen that although he didn’t admit it.”

“Did they trace you?”

“No, I don’t think they even missed me. That was rather degrading. They
knew I’d gone into the house and presumably hadn’t come out. When they
did find I’d gone they broadcast a description, but I phoned Bridie as
soon as I landed at the Amsterdam Airport, just to be on the safe side,
you know. He sent a couple of men over by the morning plane and they did
the dirty work, interviewing the stewards and so on. Bridie wasn’t
certain of his proofs against ‘Dolly.’ That’s why he was waiting to have
a showdown the moment we got back with the deposition. He seems to have
kept you all amused in the meanwhile in his own inimitable way. We were
all expecting fireworks, but I didn’t envisage anything like Gabrielle’s
sensational performance with the swordstick.”

Frances shivered.

“That was incredible,” she murmured. “As soon as that had happened the
whole thing slid into focus. Godolphin never let the stick out of his
hand, you see, and as long as one thought he was lame it wasn’t
extraordinary. He even had it with him that night he invented the
burglar.”

“When Lucar came?”

“Lucar?”

“Oh, lord, yes, that was Lucar. Didn’t you know? The police did. ‘Dolly’
must have had a phone message from him while we were still at the police
station. It was ‘Dolly’ who left the yard door open for him. That’s how
he got in. He went into the garden room, opened the cupboard door just
to make sure—you know how one does—pulled a chair up and was settling
down to wait. I imagine he had some sort of idea of putting the screws
on ‘Dolly’ then. However, he mucked his entrance. Norris heard him and
ran into ‘Dolly’ going downstairs. He bunked and ‘Dolly’ had to stage
the burglary scene by kicking over the gong. Lucky for Lucar, I should
say.”

They had come to the end of the street and he pulled her arm through his
as they crossed the empty square.

“Where did Godolphin get it?” she said, her mind running on over the
tragedy. “I thought they were unheard of nowadays.”

“Swordsticks? No. That’s what I thought, but apparently they’re not. I
put that question to Withers tonight when he called and he says he’s
been making enquiries this evening and he finds to his horror that you
can buy ’em in every umbrella shop in the city. They cost anything from
fifty bob to fifty quid, and the average small branch store still sells
about thirty-five a year. It gives one to think, doesn’t it? I shall eye
every old boy with a malacca with deep respect in future.”

They reached the bridge and paused to look over the parapet. Big Ben
blinked down on them and the coloured advertisement signs from upriver
stained the water below. They remained there for some time and presently
David turned his head.

“Well?” he said.

“Well?”

“It’s on our minds, isn’t it, ducky?”

It was pointless to misunderstand him and she laughed.

“I suppose so.”

“What are you going to do? Invest your Poor Mama’s Fortune in the Grand
Old Firm and bestow yourself on the Lowly But Not Impoverished Painter,
setting forth in April for a New World with the Dawn in its Radiance
beckoning you to a Fresh and Glowing Love Life?”

Frances considered him. He was abominable.

“You’d have the shock of your existence if I didn’t,” she said and her
eyes were as confidently mocking as his own.

                                THE END

                           TRANSCRIBER NOTES

    Misspelled words and printer errors have been corrected. Where
    multiple spellings occur, majority use has been employed.

    Punctuation has been maintained except where obvious printer
    errors occur.

[The end of _Black Plumes_ by Margery Allingham]
