=* A Distributed Proofreaders Canada eBook *=

This eBook is made available at no cost and with very few restrictions.
These restrictions apply only if (1) you make a change in the eBook
(other than alteration for different display devices), or (2) you are
making commercial use of the eBook. If either of these conditions
applies, please contact a https://www.fadedpage.com administrator before
proceeding. Thousands more FREE eBooks are available at
https://www.fadedpage.com.

This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright
in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your country's
copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT
DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.

_Title:_ Cargo of Eagles
_Date of first publication:_ 1968
_Author:_ Margery Allingham (1904-1966)
_Date first posted:_ June 22, 2026
_Date last updated:_ June 22, 2026
Faded Page eBook #20260648

This eBook was produced by: Al Haines, Cindy Beyer & the online
Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at https://www.pgdpcanada.net

This file was produced from images generously made available by Internet
Archive.







                          [Cover Illustration]




                            CARGO OF EAGLES

    Two roads lead to Saltey, an ancient hamlet on the Essex
    estuary: one is fast, frequented by mods and rockers on holiday
    weekends; the other is a dust track, almost hidden by centuries
    of misuse by black-hearted smugglers. But in this quintessential
    thriller, Albert Campion, Margery Allingham’s famed detective,
    discovers that few roads lead out. For Saltey holds a secret
    rich enough to trap all who enter the village, despite someone’s
    best endeavours to terrorise, murder and raise the very devil to
    keep that secret to themselves.




                                 CARGO
                                   OF
                                 EAGLES


                           MARGERY  ALLINGHAM

                             [Illustration]

                   =_A New Portway Large Print Book_=
                             CHIVERS PRESS
                                  BATH




                          First published 1968
                                   by
                        Chatto & Windus Limited
                 This Large Print edition published by
                             Chivers Press
                          by arrangement with
                        Chatto & Windus Limited
                     and The Hogarth Press Limited
               and in the U.S.A. with the author’s estate
                           at the request of
                   The London & Home Counties Branch
                                   of
                        The Library Association
                                  1989

                           ISBN 0 7451 7171 0

              Copyright © P. & M. Youngman Carter Ltd 1968
                          All rights reserved

            British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data

            Allingham, Margery, _1904-1966_
              Cargo of eagles.—(A new Portway large
              print book)
              I. Title
              823’.912 [F]

              ISBN 0-7451-7171-0




                               _Contents_

                 1 Back Door to London                   1
                 2 The Old Pal’s Act                    16
                 3 The Swallow Café                     34
                 4 The Road to Saltey                   45
                 5 The Company at The Demon             60
                 6 The Poet of the Saltings             76
                 7 The Mark of Teague                   90
                 8 The String Man                      101
                 9 Social Evening                      114
                10 Doctor and Patient                  129
                11 At Cheffin’s Farm                   138
                12 Beware of Ghosts                    147
                13 The Moving Finger                   155
                14 Conference                          167
                15 The Night of the Demon              175
                16 Twenty Years After                  195
                17 The Picture on the Wall             205
                18 The Tethered Goat                   214
                19 Death of a Legend                   228
                20 Cargo of Eagles                     240




    This book was left unfinished by Margery Allingham at the time
    of her death in June 1966. It has been completed by her husband
    Youngman Carter who had been her partner for nearly forty years
    and had helped to hatch many of her plots. The whole fabric of
    this story had been mapped out long before her death and the
    book has been finished by him at her specific request.

    All the characters are fictitious and no reference to any
    person, living or dead, is intended.

    The estuary, the village of Saltey, the Rattey river and the
    ‘back road’ to London will not be found on any official map.




    ‘By this time the road was full of passengers, everyone
    furnish’d with no small appetite. Citizens in crowd, upon pads,
    hackneys and hunters, all upon the titup, as if he who rid not
    at a gallop was to forfeit his horse. Some spurred on with speed
    and cheerfulness, as if they never intended to come back again.
    Some rode double, some single. Every now and then a lady drop’d
    from her pillion, and another from her sidesaddle, some showing
    the milky way to bliss to the company, which, tho’ it made them
    blush, made us merry.

    ‘Horses, coaches, carts, waggons and tumbrils fill’d the road,
    as if the whole town had been going to encamp; all occupy’d by
    men, women and children, rich, poor, gentle and simple, having
    all travelling conveniences suitable to their quality. In this
    order did we march, like Aaron’s proselytes to worship the calf,
    till we came to the new-rais’d fabric call’d Mobs Hole, in
    Wanstead Parish, where the beast was to be eaten.’

                                        _The London Spy_ by Ned Ward




                            CARGO OF EAGLES




                              CHAPTER ONE
                          BACK DOOR TO LONDON

The rain was falling in a sweet relentless fashion as it does in spring
in London and it was all very peaceful and pleasant if uncompromisingly
wet. The voice in the car echoed the unhurried pace of the afternoon.

‘I found this absurd place Saltey, you’re so interested in, perfectly
enchanting in an off-beat way but I’m damned if I can tell you quite
why.’

It was a young man talking to a middle-aged one. He was not being
completely disingenuous, for subsequent generations seldom are with each
other, but at least he was playing scrupulously fair.

‘I realise that the whole township—or as you’d say, village—pretends
to be deeply and secretly wicked, which is naïve and kind of endearing.
I wish I had more to report on it,’ he went on, ‘but unfortunately its
modern life appears to be almost entirely vegetable. If you were
interested in its history I could do better. I’m very sure a full scale
archaeological dig there would pay off, for one thing. But the living
inhabitants are not exactly go ahead except for the couple at the pub
who are working like hell—or at least the woman is—to get a little
tourist trade.’

‘Is she having any luck?’

The lighter voice of Mr Albert Campion betrayed interest. He had curled
his long body in the passenger seat of the Lotus Elan and seemed anxious
to talk.

The driver shook his head. ‘A little—at weekends. The natives
themselves don’t respond to anything which looks new or difficult,
however profitable. Their great interest is the contents of each other’s
wills. They sit around speculating for hours and there’s a grand
frustration scene every time one gets published.’

‘An end will come to that, in due course,’ said Mr Campion. ‘Mark my
words.’

‘You’re telling me!’ The driver laughed and slid down behind the wheel
in an attempt to get a better view through the railings of the public
gardens beside which they were parked. ‘Are we sitting here in the
middle of London waiting for someone? Or do you just feel that this is
the quietest place to talk?’

‘It has its advantages.’ Campion surveyed the deserted scene with
satisfaction. Lunch time was over and the streams of office workers had
been sucked back into the tall buildings for another few hours before
the next mass exodus. Although the Lotus was in one of the busiest parts
of the town, between the University and the Oxford Street shopping
centre, there was for the moment hardly a pedestrian in sight and the
other cars parked regimentally at their meters were empty.

Mortimer Kelsey, Morty to his friends and the other members of his
faculty at Vere University, Constance, New Jersey, appeared a happy man.
A great deal about Britain struck him as funny after nearly a year’s
residence, but he was also deeply attracted by its ancient spell. Both
the elegant car body and his casual clothes, conscious efforts in
understatement without dullness, were custom built. His haircut was long
for one country and short for the other and managed to make him look
mildly distinguished. This was fair, for he was already a marked man
among the newest crop of historians and he was one of that army of
Western scholars who have discovered so much more about the cities of
the old world than their inhabitants dream there is to know. He was in
his mid-twenties, a good looking youngster with well shaped, compact
bones, a deeply scored face which already showed signs of the notable
scholar he would appear in later years.

He was lucky not to appear offensively intellectual—which is to say not
at all—and he was not conceited although the pundits expected
interesting results from the piece of original research on which he was
now engaged. His father was American, his mother English: both families
unfashionably well endowed. Mr Campion had met him through his own son
Rupert who was now working for an honours degree at Harvard.

The two men although very different in age had a good deal in common.
Albert Campion, too, was tall and fair but he was over-thin and the
careful veil of affable vacuity which had begun, like his large
spectacles, as a protection and had become a second skin, had robbed him
of good looks, whereas Morty’s thick light brown hair had a wave in it
and there was nothing bleak or colourless about his grey eyes.

In his own apologetic way Mr Campion was a celebrated figure. In his
time he had performed a number of services for a great many causes. He
was a negotiator and an unraveller of knots and there were still people
who suspected, because of his war time activities, that he had a cloak
and a dagger somewhere concealed. Those who disliked him complained that
he seemed negligible until it was just too late.

At the moment he was looking out at the patch of rain-soaked London
green which formed the centre of Killowen Square. The downpour which had
persisted all morning was getting lighter but the air was soft as if
there might be more rain to come.

‘If I should want you to go back to Saltey for a while, could you manage
it?’ he asked suddenly.

‘I was hoping you’d say that. When will you know?’ Morty’s eagerness
seemed a little surprising, even to himself, for he coloured faintly.
‘It’s got something,’ he said defensively.

The older man continued to look out at the garden. The prospect was not
imposing. Four wet asphalt paths met in the centre of a roundel of grass
and the dripping plane trees in their scant shrouds of new green looked
sparse and sodden. The only ornamental feature of the place was a tiny
Victorian bandstand perched among regimented tulips. Constructed of
florid cast iron work, it was white painted, gay as a sunshade and just
as silly on a rainy day. Mr Campion glanced over the empty garden to the
immense wall of the buildings beyond.

‘That over-stuffed contraption squatting under the new skyscraper is
Lugg’s favourite hotel,’ he remarked. ‘You saw him down there, of
course? He considers the old Ottoman is “quite the article”, which is
his highest praise. In my father’s day the valets there always ironed
the laces when they cleaned the boots and a rope ladder was kept under
every bed in case of fire. How is Lugg?’

‘Very impressive. He shoots the most magnificent line ever. I’ve heard
him on the well pressed bootlace. _Was_ he ever in Royal service?’

Mr Campion controlled his amusement. ‘He’s looked after me for quite a
few years as a sort of housekeeper,’ he began cautiously.

‘I know, but he says this was when he was younger. He was telling one of
the architects he did a spell for the Monarch before he lost his
figure.’

The thin man relaxed. ‘That was only for six months,’ he said. ‘It was
the—er—Palace of Wormwood Scrubs, I believe. Which architects are
these?’

‘The people who are gunning for the job of building his bungalow.’ Morty
spoke with authority. ‘He’s retiring to Saltey to take up archaeology,
or so he says. Didn’t he tell you? He could choose a worse place.’

‘Oh? what is there?’

‘I’m not sure, yet.’ The distinctive young face had become earnest. ‘As
you know, the paper I’m doing is on London’s approaches in the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries and when you asked me to
investigate that crazy damn story there, I was genuinely looking for
something else.’

‘Saltey: gateway to the East End?’

‘You’re not so far out, and it’s my own beautiful discovery.’ Morty’s
grin was joyful. ‘There’s not a breath of it in any of the authorities
but I think I’ve got proof that the little harbour there, which is
practically silted up now, is all that is left of the ancient bolt hole,
old London’s eastern emergency exit. As a matter of fact, Saltey is the
other end of Mob’s Hole. I’m sure of it now. The lower half of the
village where the best pub stands is called Mob’s Bowl today and that’s
hardly a distortion, is it? There it is, written on the survey maps and
signposts.’ He paused in sudden doubt. ‘You have heard of Mob’s Hole?’

‘Should I?’

‘Perhaps not. I’m quite besotted with my subject. Anyway, you can take
it from me that it existed in Wanstead about seventeen ten or so. It was
a rakehelly dive, a kind of roadhouse, where the “mobility”—that’s the
joke name of the period for the tarts and townees who had
transport—used to ride out of the city for a feed, what we’d call a
barbecue, and a punch-up. There is a fine fruity account of it in _The
London Spy_.’

‘Do the present day people of Saltey subscribe to this?’

‘Gosh, no. They’ve never heard of it. They think, if they think at all,
that the Bowl is derived from the silted up tidal basin by the quay and
that it could be a relic of a prehistoric salt panning industry. One old
biddy told me it was “Mab” and not “Mob” and was a direct reference to
the Fairy Queen.’

‘How old is Saltey?’

‘Oh, dateless. In prehistoric times it was at the edge of the single
great river mouth. Then it became a delta as the mud banks shifted and
finally it grew into the marsh and plough we know. Since its heyday,
which was probably pre-Saxon, it must have grown more and more
inefficient as the clay took over. I’m certain there’s an early fortress
by the highest part of the sea wall just waiting to be uncovered.’ He
sighed and laughed at himself for it. ‘That’s not my period and so is
not my province, which is the infuriating thing about history. It does
keep repeating itself but only in its untidy way. New names get attached
to old happenings and vice versa. If I don’t stick to my own period I’ll
be lost in a morass of extra information. But it’s a honey of a find. Do
you know what the upper or respectable end of the place is called?
_Forty_ Angels.’

‘Really?’ Mr Campion so far forgot himself as to take his eyes off the
garden he had been watching so steadfastly. ‘Come to think of it, I did
know that one. It’s later than the other end and the name was given it
as a safeguard against slander. Call a gathering The Forty Thieves and
it could mean trouble, but say Forty Angels and no one wants to black
your eye. Yes, your meaning is clear. Isn’t that right?’

Morty wagged his head.

‘It looks pretty damned odd on the Ordnance Survey,’ he said. ‘It’s a
crazy name for a village district, even in England. Saltey was on the
end of an escape route. It was the funnel through which secret goods or
people were smuggled in or out of East London. It’s remote even now. Not
in miles of course—just cut off. The approach is terrible.’

‘Through that maze of lanes lying beyond the Southend road, I suppose?’

‘Oh yes, it’s still a Cinderella. Today there’s a bungalow dormitory two
miles wide but before that one has to pass a waste of worked out clay
pits which have been turned into a wilderness by various army training
courses and old defence works. Long before they were as much as thought
of, that was where the Great Dump was.’

In the back of Mr Campion’s mind a faint bell rang. ‘Was that “The
Trough”?’

‘That’s right!’ Morty was delighted. ‘It was a swamp really. The little
Rattey River rose in it and drained out to reach the sea at Saltey. It
first appears as a place of ill omen in the Middle Ages, when for a time
it was thought to be the source of the Plague. For generations it was a
no-man’s land, an Alsatia worse than any shanty town. Bands of diseased
beggars wandered around. Indestructible rubbish was shot there. Rats and
wild dogs bred there and I believe there were ferocious wild pigs as
late as eighteen hundred. No one is his senses took a path through the
place and there are some hair-raising tales of kidnappings, murdered
coachmen, wandering lunatics and even cannibalism. On the far side of
it, nearer the coast, there was woodland, an arm of the old forest which
covered the whole country at one time. Then there is a strip of twitchy
heath, some of which isn’t enclosed even now, and after that the mouth
of the tiny Rattey River estuary and Saltey. You can drive through it
all now, but it’s still not easy to find. No industry you see. Not
suitable land for development. Just the saltings and Saltey. When you do
reach it, there it sits, smug and deserted and not very pleased to see
you.’

‘You say there are no new residents?’

‘None that I’ve heard of.’ He turned and glanced across the garden. ‘Its
only claim to fame is that a peculiarly revolting mother-figure was
found in a field at Firestone, four miles away, in nineteen hundred.
That’s in the British Museum now—in the horror comic room. Hey!’

He leaned forward. A solitary figure had appeared on the path
approaching the bandstand. He was some distance away and was making for
the distant gate in front of the skyscraper and the baroque hotel.

‘See who that is?’ he demanded in some excitement as he took a small
gunmetal cylinder from the open map compartment in front of him. ‘I
think I’m right, though I’ve only seen him once before. He’s almost
commonplace close to, but utterly distinctive from a distance. It’s the
thing I particularly noticed about him. Hang on, I’ll give you the
bird-watching glass in a moment.’ He put the little telescope to his eye
and crowed.

‘I’m right! That’s L. C. Corkran, head of Intelligence and Security or
whatever you call it over here. My, my! He looks pretty sour, doesn’t
he?’

Mr Campion, who had stiffened involuntarily at the mention of the name,
recovered himself and accepted the little instrument.

‘He’s retiring, I believe,’ said Morty, his ingenuousness
unquestionable, ‘at the end of the year.’

His passenger grunted. ‘About time too, if he’s as well known as that.’

‘Oh, it’s not general knowledge. One of our attachés pointed him out to
me at a Test Match when I first came over. I remembered him because I
was told he was quite somebody years ago.’ He spoke regretfully.
‘Burn-before-reading top secrets are dead ducks nowadays. It must be
tough on these old boys to have their hush-hush departments degenerating
into tatting houses all round them. They’re full of old ladies sticking
little silver knives into each other’s backs now. Or so they say.’ He
shook his head and changed the subject. ‘You know, I can easily imagine
this town teeming with sedan chairs and stinking bullies in silk coats,
but I’m darned if I can see it as the gaping ruin it must have been only
twenty odd years ago. It doesn’t seem possible. It’s so elderly and
permanent and—I won’t say pompous—urbane, perhaps.’

Mr Campion let him chatter. Through the ‘escape and evasion’ glass, an
instrument with which he had once been uncomfortably familiar but had
now become a mere ‘war surplus store’, he was watching the grim features
of one of his oldest and closest friends. He and L. C. Corkran, ‘Elsie’
to his familiars, met seldom nowadays but there had been a time when
each had been content to know that his life was in the other’s hands.
Morty was right. The old man looked bitter. Mr Campion knew that
expression and he kept the glass on him as he came up with the
bandstand. He shot a glance at it from force of habit, because of its
memories and strode on, his heavy chin thrust out, his shoulders sagging
and his eyes down. There was defeat written all over him. As he turned
and his face was hidden, Mr Campion raised the glass to the new
skyscraper beside the old hotel. Of the nest of windows on the ninth and
tenth floors, two had curtains looped back by cautious hands. They
dropped into place as the solitary figure advanced.

Old ladies with silver knives? More accurately dry grey serpents with
shiny duct-fed teeth. The thin man shivered and returned the little
telescope to its locker.

‘How soon can you get back to Saltey?’ he enquired.

‘You’ve made up your mind already? Wonderful. I thought you’d have to
have a conference or something. I can go down there today, as a matter
of fact. Am I still to be investigating the great Saltey Demon? I’m
afraid that’s going to turn out to be a dead loss, by the way.’

‘I thought it might. What is it? A rustic joke?’

‘Sort of. The lady at the pub has been casting round for something to
attract visitors ever since she took over the place. She had a yen for
one of those God-awful wishing-wells you find all over the West Country.
You know the sort of thing. Fling your dime into the water and the local
pixies will reward you with a lucky pebble and a picture postcard of the
waterfront. She kept worrying to know if Saltey had such a sprite and
eventually someone—her husband perhaps, for he’s a local—came forward
with this unlikely devil. They tell the tale on Friday nights in walnut
time when the moon is full. Or something like that.’

Mr Campion laughed.

‘She must have sold the idea to the local papers because the nationals
picked it up a year or two back. I read it somewhere. A coloured Sunday,
I think.’

‘You told me. Anyway, the legend provides me with a fairly reasonable
excuse for hanging round. At the moment I’m the poor young Yankee
professor, good for a free pint and folksy tale any day.’

‘And no one new has arrived in the village in the past year or so?’

‘Only the pub people, or rather the woman. A couple called Wishart. Her
name is Dixie and she’s not exactly an intellectual but she means well
and she’s a worker. Her husband is not. He’s a man of culture in his odd
way—quite a different background, anyhow, I’d say. I think he lived
around those parts as a boy. He writes poetry and gets it published or
used to.’

‘Not H. O. Wishart?’

‘That’s the man. He’s about sixty-five now and not the best of value,
but he’s in the anthologies. She keeps a Georgian Poetry under the bar
counter and trots it out on the least provocation.’

‘_Beware of me: I cast no shadow when I pass_,’ quoted Mr Campion.
‘That’s the chap, isn’t it? A genuine minor poet and a white hope at one
time. I didn’t know he was at the inn. Did you say it was called “The
Demon”?’

‘That’s very recent. Dixie got the brewers to change it. Partly because
the other pub is called The Angel, and partly on account of the old joke
about the Demon. It used to be called “The Foliage”, which she was
mistaken enough to think dull.’

Morty met the other man’s raised eyebrows and laughed. ‘I know it. It
can only be a contraction of “The Foliate Man”, can’t it? I tell you the
place is full of good things. Add that to the Fertility Venus and one or
two other items and the shenanigans the wilder teenage gangs get up to
along the sea wall don’t seem half as modern as they might.’

‘Tearaways? You get them down there?’ The thin man looked interested but
Morty shrugged.

‘They’re everywhere. They don’t stay. They just swoop down on motor
bikes—ton-up types. They tear off their space-man rig-outs and jump in
the sea. Then they eat the shop out of cake, drain the pub of shandy and
mock champagne and rush off again. That and the occasional orgy.’

‘It sounds promising.’

‘Not really, as it turned out.’ He was a thought sulky as if something
still rankled. ‘Little tramps,’ he said suddenly. ‘I went round to the
sea wall only a week ago to watch some saddleback gulls and I sat down
out of the wind and went to sleep. It was quite early and pretty nippy
weather. When I woke up there were some of these kids—they were sixteen
or seventeen I suppose—screaming and dancing almost on top of me,
dressed in crash helmets and boots and damn all else as far as I could
see. Not that I blame them for the boots, the saltings are infested with
grass snakes they say, but the point is—they wanted to shock me.’

He paused. ‘Little tramp,’ he repeated.

‘One in particular?’

‘As a matter of fact, yes. The ringleader, I think. She was skipping
round me like Salome without much in the way of veils, just waiting for
the laugh when I opened my eyes. It was all unnatural and wild because
it was so early in the year for that sort of thing. I scuttled back to
the village and in a minute or two they came roaring past and rode me
into a dyke. Seven or eight of them, all scruffy ringlets and black
leather, and as high as kites, I’d say. Full of pep pills or worse.
Perhaps I’m growing old. Anyhow, they didn’t stay and I haven’t seen a
sign of them since. I take it you’re interested in something a little
less fancy?’

His passenger took out his wallet and extracted a photograph.

‘That’s someone I’d like you to look for. He’ll be quite a bit older
than he is there. His name by the way is Teague—James Teague.’

Morty studied the picture. It was a head only: the man had been caught
by a press photographer, looking over his shoulder. It was a distinctive
face, handsome and swarthy in the white-toothed fashion of the early
film stars and crowned with sweeping curls of black hair. He could have
been in his mid-thirties, but the outstanding impression he gave was of
youth and that superabundant energy and vivacity which go to make the
powerful visual personality. He looked both dangerous and exciting. A
violent, magnetic, unpredictable animal.

‘Quite a guy.’ The younger man handed back the print. ‘I’ll know him if
I see him. It’s not a face you’d miss anywhere, let alone in my little
Saltey.’

His grin held a remembered pleasure and Campion spoke on impulse.

‘What is it that attracts you so down there? A woman?’

A guilty colour suffused Morty’s cheeks.

‘Not really,’ he said with dignity. ‘And certainly not that little
tramp.’ He paused, amused at himself, before continuing. ‘But in a way
you’re right. I did happen to encounter a dazzler down there the other
day. She could become one of your new residents in time, but that’s
almost too much to hope for. She’s just inherited a house in the
respectable part of the village and there’s some sort of trouble
packaged in with the deal. She certainly has something, that one.’ He
was staring into the greenery ahead of him and his wide smile twisted.

‘I’m crazy,’ he said with the tolerance of a man who cannot quite credit
his own absurdity. ‘I’ve only seen her for a few minutes. She came into
The Demon with someone who was showing her round. In fact she was only
. . .’

‘Passing by?’ suggested Mr Campion.

Morty laughed at himself. ‘And across a crowded room, same like the
other song says. Forget it, I’ll recover. I’m to look for the
picturesque guy in the photograph. Is that all?’

‘Not quite. I’m also interested in a man with a glass eye. If he should
appear, get on to me at once.’

‘O.K. Any other distinguishing marks? I mean that sort of thing is very
well made these days. I could miss it.’

‘I don’t think so. Not this one. He is a tall man with a protuberant
real eye and the unequal effect is noticeable—or used to be. That’s
what I’m told. Also his own eye is that very bright clear Nordic blue
which you find on your own east coast. Difficult to match, you know. The
tendency is to get the false one too electric. Should this lad appear
Lugg will go to ground, so it will be up to you to keep him in your
sights. I take it you’re treating Lugg as a stranger?’

‘Oh, yes. We fraternise as man to man in the pub but everyone thinks we
met down there. May I ask what we’re supposed to be up to?’

‘I’d much rather you didn’t. It may be safer that way. Do you mind?’

‘Not at all.’ Morty was polite but was astonished. ‘Who am I working
for?’

‘Me,’ said Mr Campion promptly. ‘Me alone, I’m afraid. And as for me,
I’m working for a lady.’

‘Her Majesty?’ Morty was a royalist by nature.

The thin man appeared momentarily embarrassed. ‘Well, no, as a matter of
fact,’ he said with uncharacteristic awkwardness. ‘_Au contraire_, now I
come to think of it.’


                              CHAPTER TWO
                           THE OLD PAL’S ACT

Mr Campion had been a member of Puffins, one of the least publicised of
London Clubs, for many years and never expected to find himself
embarrassed by the fact, but as he hurried down St James’s towards the
Georgian portico he felt an unfamiliar discomfort. He passed the place
at speed and his sidestep into the alcove which concealed the service
entrance to Fitzherbert’s, the club next door, was furtive.

He was keeping an appointment with Stanislaus Oates, a retired Assistant
Commissioner of Police famous in his day, and the choice of rendezvous
was typical of that ingenious old man’s latest phase. Membership of
Fitzherbert’s was said still to be decided by heredity and it certainly
remained a last stronghold of unregenerate class consciousness and the
kind of prejudice which is on the direct route to embalmment.

On the other hand old Oates, who had risen from the ranks and never
suffered from fear of heights, appreciated service, privacy and comfort
when he saw them. Fitzherbert’s appealed to him strongly and nowadays,
when he came to town from his retreat in the suburbs, he made a point of
looking up one of his erstwhile sergeants who had a job in charge of
security in the basement there. Often he stayed the whole afternoon and
evening, during which time people were liable to drop in to see him. Mr
Campion was one of many who were highly dubious of the ethics of such an
expedient, but then, as was the case with most other callers, it was he
who was seeking help.

Today he went quickly down the area steps, restrained himself from
pulling up his collar, scuttled past cellar and kitchen doors and turned
into a third entrance. This was as uninviting as he had been warned to
expect and as he came to the end he found himself in a small hall
containing six service doors. They were all blank save for one which
bore a hand-lettered ticket with the inspired instruction: ‘_Try next
door_’.

He tapped softly and lifted the card to reveal a metal grille with an
interior shutter. It opened at once and a pair of suspicious eyes looked
out at him. He murmured his name, the eyes defrosted and he was shown at
once into a small butler’s pantry where silver cleaning was in process.
A man who was clearly an ex-sergeant, superb in a crested baize apron,
motioned him towards an inner room.

‘Mr Oates will see you now, sir.’

But for the fancy dress he could have been back at the Yard again. Mr
Campion stepped into a snug apartment whose walls were lined with glass
fronted steel grilled cupboards. These were kept lit perpetually for
security’s sake and upon their shelves in limpid glory the old Club’s
fabled collection of George II silver glittered like a fairy tale,
proclaiming without contradiction that it was worth a fortune of
anybody’s money. A mahogany table filled the centre of the room and
there was a shabby green leather armchair on either side of a garrulous
gas fire.

Oates was dozing in one of these and he opened an eye as Campion
appeared. He was growing frail and the discovery hit the newcomer who
had not seen him for a year or two. For so long he had regarded that
grey man with the mournful bloodhound face and the thick stomach as the
finest policeman of them all. To find him grown old at this of all times
was a blow he had not envisaged.

Meanwhile the ex-A.C. was permitting himself a sly little grin at his
own cleverness which in his early days he would certainly have kept
hidden.

‘How do you like my office? I spotted its value as soon as I saw that
peephole in the outer door,’ he said proudly. ‘It makes the perfect
interview room, don’t it? Just the spot for a quiet jaw. We’re much more
comfortable down here than we would be upstairs, you know.’

Mr Campion could not have agreed with him more, if only in view of the
fact that neither of them were members, and he said so with mild
reproof.

Oates grunted. ‘Move with the times, my boy. The Old Pal’s Act isn’t
confined to you public school types above stairs now. You’ve taught the
rest of us the drill. Jessop and I are a cell of our own down here. If
I’m caught, by the way, I’m an insurance man come to see no one has
hocked the trophies. That ought to cover me, don’t you think?’

His visitor regarded him in astonishment. The recklessness inherent in
age had unleashed an unsuspected impish streak in his old friend.

‘I don’t know what you’ll be, Albert.’

‘I do,’ said Mr Campion with feeling. ‘Now, any news of James Teague?’

‘They’ve still not found him. It’s not Luke’s fault. There’s so much
efficiency at the old place today that a routine job like keeping an eye
on a released prisoner is almost too simple for the clever beggars.’

Mr Campion who had brightened a little at the mention of Superintendent
Charles Luke, whom he admired, relapsed into anxiety.

‘I couldn’t believe it of them,’ he said. ‘They knew it was important.
To lose him within a matter of hours seems inept. I made certain the
press would have got on to it.’

‘Would you? I think they’ve forgotten him. Remember that paper was very
short at the time, so he didn’t quite make his fair share of headlines.
He’s been inside a long time and he earned no remission. A bad prisoner
in his early days and a trouble-maker—two attempted escapes and a
warder beaten up.’

‘I gathered that,’ Mr Campion sat down in the other armchair. ‘I was out
of the country at the time, so I’ve been looking it up. There doesn’t
seem to have been an appeal.’

‘No. His counsel—that was old Ted Edwards K.C.—boxed clever over his
good war record, hinted at shock, tried for a reprieve instead, and made
it.’

Oates was talking with the authority of a man who had been there. ‘It
was a wicked business. Teague was so reckless that you could say he was
mad. He led this boarding party on to Christoff’s yacht the _Clymene_ on
the high seas and shot the mate in cold blood in the course of the raid.
Murder and piracy—they called it Pirracy in court for some
reason—almost the only two crimes we still take seriously. He was an
uncomplicated villain, a natural killer with practical wartime
experience. It was only old Lord Pendleton’s horror of capital
punishment which saved him from hanging. He got a hell of a sentence and
he deserved every day of it.’

‘And now you think he’s forgotten?’

The prim mouth smiled. ‘Well, he’s not the news he was, is he? We’ve had
a lot of spectacular violence since Jimmy Teague. I didn’t expect crowds
round the prison gates.’

Mr Campion was not satisfied. ‘He was very colourful,’ he murmured.
‘Irresistible to women and all that. Could only be killed by a silver
bullet, and used them himself in case anyone else had the same theory.
You knew that tale, I suppose? I know he had no family but you’d have
thought someone would have turned up if only because some of the loot
was never recovered.’

‘Loot?’ Oates cocked an eyebrow. ‘That’s an unlikely interest—for you.
Well, well. Who’s left? As I recall it there were only four men on the
pirate craft. She was some sort of Air Sea Rescue launch called the
_Lily Marina_. Two are dead. Teague was caught and only Target Burrows
got clean away out of the country . . .’ He paused. ‘Or at least that’s
what Chief Inspector Yeo and I thought at the time and we should have
known.’

‘Burrows was the one-eyed man?’

‘The engineer. A sly feckless fellow by all accounts, and a bully when
he had the chance. Always making irritating jokes of the sort that would
be called “sick” these days. One of his wife’s boy friends got so wild
with him one night that he shot straight at his face with the kid’s
airgun and knocked his eye out. Burrows nearly killed the man but the
neighbours called him “Target” after that. What a brutal race we are,
Campion! I often think that.’

His visitor ignored the digression. ‘Surely the police must still be
interested where the man goes unless they’ve written off the stuff?’

‘That’s a thing we never do, as you very well know. If loot is really
what you are concerned about why not go to Luke? I thought you two were
as thick as tealeaves?’

Mr Campion did not respond. Instead he returned to the main subject.

‘Christoff offered fifteen thousand pounds reward for the jewellery
alone. I’ve just seen it on the files.’

‘Mister Christoff was a multi-millionaire, a very arrogant gentleman and
he was driven pretty well off his nut by the sheer cheek of the
robbery,’ said Oates placidly. ‘The size of the reward was governed by
his feelings not the insurance value of the goods. He told me so
himself. It was nice stuff, belonged strictly speaking to his wife, and
very distinctive from the photographs. There was a tiara, two bracelets,
necklace, earrings and a brooch. All in a matching design of golden
birds with diamond eyes and sprays. Costume jewellery, for a man in his
income bracket. Its breakdown value wouldn’t have been enormous. I
always thought that was why Teague went berserk. He expected something
more.’

‘As I read it, Teague killed because he was recognised,’ objected the
thin man. ‘There was an Australian deckhand on the yacht who recognised
him despite his mask. He gave evidence at the trial how he spotted him
as he came aboard and told the mate. The mate, poor chap, addressed
Teague by name and got a silver bullet for his trouble. Isn’t that the
way it went?’

‘Perhaps so. All the same it wasn’t a great haul and Teague is one of
those larger than life characters who resent any events which don’t
match up to their own idea of themselves. He got under a thousand pounds
in cash from the safe, two pictures from the owner’s state room, a few
valuable odds and ends and parcel of booze still crated which must have
been hell’s delight to transfer in mid-ocean.’

He paused and lay back in the chair, his eyes half closed. ‘I’ve been
sitting here and thinking about you,’ he said presently.

‘Oh, yes? With what in view?’

‘I was wondering what the devil you could be up to. I had one idea.’

‘Does it matter?’ Campion made the request very gently but Oates had
grown old enough to be openly disappointed.

‘I don’t want to know your blasted business,’ he said. ‘I’ve known you
for close on thirty years. I’ll tell you what I thought, though. It
couldn’t have been hard cash or we’d have heard all about it. But
suppose some of those cases of champagne contained something equally
heavy but potentially much more valuable . . . paper, for instance?’

‘Paper?’ His visitor might never have heard of the material.

‘Files,’ said the ex-A.C. firmly. ‘Their contents would be wartime
secrets, long out of date by now. Scandalous international stuff,
perhaps. But secrets, like H.E., keep their destructive power for longer
than one would expect. I notice that they are at a premium these days.
Newspapers publish extraordinary libels and pay the fines cheerfully and
eminent old blokes such as me, who ought to know a darn sight better, go
and write highly sensational memoirs. Cast iron evidence on one or two
subjects I can think of could be well worth hawking and that might not
suit . . . ?’

He let the sentence trail away in a query and his visitor smiled at him.

‘It’s a great gift,’ he said admiringly. ‘Being able to romanticise
one’s past, I mean.’

Oates ignored him. ‘It was during that spring—’46, wasn’t it?—before
the _Lily Marina_ crime that you and Elsie Corkran were closing down
that extraordinary set-up you had in the mountains behind Cassis,’ he
said. ‘I remember very well who your boss in London was at the time and
if I know him, you must have had to keep records and documents just like
any other department. Now if Christoff’s yacht happened to be refitting
down the coast near Marseilles just then—and it was, you know—then it
could well have been just the sort of transport to appeal to you two.
There she lay, a safe conveyance belonging to a man of no official
allegiance, who probably owed you a kindness. If you used her you’d be
asking no favours from any other service, signing no chits, spending no
money . . . am I embarrassing you?’

‘Not in the least.’ Mr Campion was affable. ‘The one thing I enjoy is a
good spy story. Have you heard the one about the Russian, the Chinese
and the American who suddenly found out they were an Englishman, an
Irishman and a Scotsman . . . ?’

Oates waved him silent.

‘Never mind,’ he said. ‘Forget it. I merely thought that since we are
here, two old friends in Lodge, that you might care to come across.
However, security was always security and I want to oblige. You asked me
to give you a hand and I’ve spent the morning getting all I can for
you.’

‘My dear chap, I can’t tell you how grateful I am. Don’t you think
yourself that Burrows is bound to be looking for Teague, or Teague for
Burrows? They were thought to be on a barge together, weren’t they? In
that last dash before Teague was picked up in Harwich?’

‘We really don’t know.’ Oates was shedding his years. ‘But that was what
we made of it. All we are sure of is that, at a time when half the
world’s shipping was looking out for her, the _Lily Marina_ put into the
Hamble river in fog and was there abandoned. That was on March 20th in
misty weather with spring tides running. On the same night two of her
crew of four, small villains called Goddard and Hunter, were killed
outright in a crash on the Portsmouth road. They were in a stolen car
and on the back seat were a couple of oil paintings. There was a case of
Krug in the boot and each man had just under two hundred pounds in
notes. The paintings were valuable and Christoff identified them as his.
Meantime Teague and Burrows had vanished and there was no sign of them
until Teague alone was picked up in a street in Harwich five days later.
If there was a woman around we never found her. He had nothing
incriminating on him and he wouldn’t talk. It wasn’t for want of
persuading.’

Mr Campion appeared puzzled.

‘I thought there was a barge in the story?’ he said. ‘The newspaper
accounts at the time mention it. It was found in the estuary near the
mouth of the Rattey on the east coast.’

‘So it was. The barge _Blossom_,’ Oates agreed irritatingly. ‘But there
was no hard evidence to connect her with Teague. She was a Thames craft
that had been on a trip to Gossingham which is not too far from the
Hamble. She’d unloaded there and her master and mate were in the town.
This was on the night of the 20th when the _Lily Marina_ crept in.
Either _Blossom_ broke away, which is highly unlikely, or she was
stolen. She was seen by a Coastal Command plane not far from the Owers
light vessel at about seven the following morning and then lost in the
mist. As you say, she turned up eventually, high on the mud in the
estuary.’

‘And only Teague could have got her there?’

‘That was the professional view at the time. He was highly thought of as
a sailor in those parts. Two experienced men could have done it. Also of
course the place isn’t too far from Harwich where he was caught.’

‘Anything on board to connect her with the piracy?’

‘One empty champagne bottle.’ Oates was unsmiling. ‘The right year and
the right brand and it hadn’t a print on it.’

‘What happened to Target?’

‘There again we never really knew.’ He shook his head over past
shortcomings. ‘Some time after Teague had been sent down, Yeo got word
that Burrows had been seen in Liverpool. The Lancashire police
co-operated but we’d lost him. It was the time of the infamous two-way
traffic with Ireland . . . rationed food coming into this country, men
on the run going out of it. That damn barge gave us no end of trouble.
Our men were mud-larking down there in Essex for weeks. It was a wild
goose chase.’

‘In wild goose country by all accounts. There’s a village down there
called Saltey . . .’

‘You can say that again!’ Oates was suddenly wrathful. ‘Contrary hole! I
shall never forget that name or the trouble our people had as long as I
live. My chaps took detailed statements from every man, woman and child
and got precisely nothing except colds in the head and a vague sensation
of doubt. A population of smiling savages playing stupid. Teague knew
the place well before the war, probably as a smuggler of some sort, and
Yeo made certain he’d gone ashore there, but either they were all lying,
which isn’t impossible if you knew them, or he went the other way. The
_Blossom_ went aground on the far side of the estuary, and there is a
road of sorts which he could have taken. Saltey is up to its tricks
again now—did you know that?’

Mr Campion sat up. ‘I sent a youngster down there and Lugg is about
somewhere,’ he said cautiously. ‘I thought some of the brotherhood might
be gathering in those parts.’

‘Waiting for Teague? I wonder. No, this is a native mischief—the
natural evil of the locality.’ Oates was unamused. ‘It’s the element of
coincidence which captures me every time,’ he confessed. ‘Coincidences
aren’t natural. But how about this for a likely tale? At the back of St
Botolph’s Hospital, down in Antrim Street, there’s a small café called
The Swallow. The hospital staff use it, so do a group of kids and it has
a second string amongst the coffee drinkers at night. I’m going to send
you down there in a minute to see a young doctor whom I think you ought
to look at. Actually she’s going to meet Detective Sergeant Throstle,
but I’ve fixed it so that you can get in.’

‘Why?’

‘Wait for it. She has inherited a property from a senile ex-patient of
the hospital and got herself into the centre of a fine old poison pen
storm . . .’

‘All from Saltey?’

‘The house is there but the letters seem to be coming from anywhere. The
hospital secretary has had three from three separate places, London and
two towns in East Anglia.’

‘Unpleasant.’

‘That was my attitude. It’s the natural reaction. Throstle was very
sniffy until he discovered that the whole hospital thought it was the
most natural thing in the world.’

‘That a junior medico should inherit from a grateful inmate?’

‘Better than that. The old lady _wasn’t_ her patient. She hardly knew
her. The girl had only been in the ward a few times to attend to
somebody else. The old thing “did but see her passing by” in fact. And
no one was astonished when she left her her home and its contents. What
are you looking at me like that for? Remembered something?’

‘In a way.’ Campion was laughing. ‘At least, someone else used the
phrase about a girl this afternoon. Come to think of it, it could have
been the same woman . . . which is utterly absurd. What is your
coincidence?’

‘Mine?’ Oates seemed taken aback by this welter of circumstance. ‘Oh,
mine concerns Teague, which is why I’m telling you. Late last night when
the waitresses at The Swallow Café were clearing up, they found a wallet
containing three out of date pound notes, a few other significant items,
a press cutting and so on, hidden in one of the majolica jars they keep
on the ledges.

‘On their way home they handed it in to a police station and a bright
lad there spotted what it was and reported it. Whilst I was at head
office this morning positive identification came through from the
prison. It was Teague’s all right. It had been given back to him along
with his other personal possessions when he came out, just a week ago.’
He paused. ‘There’s no real connection, except for the bequest and the
village.’

Mr Campion blinked.

‘I don’t see it,’ he said. ‘None of it fits anywhere at all, does it? Is
the inference that the wallet was a plant? Some sort of come hither
gesture?’

Oates shrugged his shoulders. ‘Maybe. Or it could have been pinched by
someone in the normal way and ditched there because the hiding place
happened to be convenient. Dippers often do that. The café staff don’t
remember anyone remotely resembling Teague coming in and women usually
recall him. These say they haven’t had anyone but their regulars for
weeks. That means the hospital staff and the usual young crowd.’

‘Did you gather how Teague managed to fade out so effectively? No one
was asked to keep an eye on him, I suppose?’

‘Not at all.’ The old eyes were very thoughtful. ‘There’s something not
quite right about the whole business. Teague was released, as such chaps
are, into the arms of the good people who give up their lives to take
care of long term prisoners. Apart from sending them out on a dog lead
they couldn’t be in safer hands. Teague appeared very quiet and was
thought to be quite as shaken by the speed of life as any other newly
released long term man. He was taken along by the social worker to one
of their best addresses, in Lewisham. That means motherly lodgings where
there’s a man and a wife interested and experienced. This particular
couple knew what they were taking on. They’ve been doing the same for
other lifers for years. It’s a better system than the routine
ex-prisoners’ institute where the men are inclined to feel that they’re
better off inside.’

‘Did he go to them without protest?’

‘Oh, yes. His “stunned” act was very convincing. He spent the morning
sitting in the old girl’s kitchen and not talking just reading the
newspaper. Whilst she was getting the meal, her husband Tom Blower took
him down to the local for a pint. Tom is an ex-constable, very steady
and knowledgeable. This is his hobby and he’s a good, kindly sort of
chap. They went down to the Bunch of Grapes, a biggish house in the
Gresham Road. It’s quiet and almost deserted in the mornings as a rule,
at any rate until the dinner hooter goes. There was only one stranger in
the bar, a woman whom Blower says he thinks was on the game. She spoke
to Teague but she was civil and he encouraged it, for as he says, a man
has to get used to talking to a tart again some time.

‘Then suddenly the place filled up with a great swarm of people from
some local factory, works people who use it regularly it seems. In the
flurry Teague and the woman vanished. Blower thought very little of it
at first but he reported it by mid-afternoon, which was lucky because
Teague hasn’t been seen since. Not a word of him, until the wallet
turned up here in the West End.’

‘It seems a trifle elaborate if it was engineered.’

‘That’s what I thought. It’s a romantic story book idea, I said to
Throstle.’ Oates hesitated. ‘There was one item about the evidence which
struck me. When Blower was describing this woman he said she was dressed
up “old fashioned”. Our man took him up on that and he explained that
she looked more like the 1930s than the late 60s, though she couldn’t
have been more than forty years old, if that.’

Mr Campion stared at him. ‘How disconcerting!’

Oates laughed. ‘I thought so. I don’t know why. Is there something
sinister in being out of period?’

‘No,’ said Mr Campion. ‘Just phoney. And that’s perfectly idiotic in the
circumstances. Why dissemble? By the way, what about Teague’s
background? Who wrote to him in prison? Who came to see him?’

The old man consulted his mental notes and spoke as if he was giving
formal evidence. ‘His correspondence seems to have been sparse, mostly
from sailors who had wartime experiences to share. Very rarely from the
same address. The officer who vetted them recently says he _thinks_
several of them might have been from the same man using different names,
but he can’t swear to it. Teague isn’t a great writer, but if a
correspondent said “_Charlie Brown, who’s now at such and such an
address, would like to hear from you_,” then Teague used his
once-a-month letter to write to that man. No rule against it. But it’s
suggestive. If he used a code it was of the unbreakable variety:
“_Remember the lark we played on old Bubblegum and the row there was
about the match-sticks?_” You know the sort of thing. Only the man at
the receiving end can tell if it’s a joke or has a double meaning. But
there was nothing to make anyone really suspicious. Of course messages
can be smuggled both ways. We can’t rule that out, and it’s a
possibility. As to visitors, there was a woman who was a regular at one
time whom they checked on, but found nothing exceptionable, though her
address changed several times. The padre thinks she may have died
because the visits suddenly stopped, but he never got a murmur out of
Teague. There’s nothing helpful there, I’m afraid.’

‘Too bad,’ said Campion regretfully. ‘Now about this girl doctor. What’s
the idea of my joining the tea party?’

The old man cocked an eyebrow at his guest. ‘You’re getting slow,’ he
said. ‘I’ve told Throstle that you know more about analysing the
contents of anonymous letters than any other practitioner alive. That’s
harmless, plausible and possibly true. I thought if you went in under
that banner you could slide into the Teague business and into Saltey
without giving yourself away.’

‘That was very kind and civil of you.’

‘Wasn’t it?’ Oates was smiling sardonically. ‘I realise that you can’t
confide in me but I happen to know that you need a bit of help just now,
whatever you think you’re up to. You had a set-back today. I don’t
believe you know that yet?’

‘Really? “Fly. All is discovered.” That sort of bad news?’ enquired
Campion blandly.

‘Not quite. But just as I was leaving the old place this morning I heard
a murmur of what you might call above stairs gossip. Today Corkran was
expecting to lunch very privately, not to say magnificently, in
Westminster. Did you know that?’

‘He’s always eating.’

‘Very likely. But this was unusual. When a man in Corkran’s position
takes a step which is reserved for extreme emergency and risks
irritating the “machine” by exercising his peculiar prerogative and
going to his supreme boss direct, even a silly old copper like me knows
he has something on his mind. Then when he gets fobbed off yet again
with some young P.S. all gas and no authority, I’m bound to put two and
two together.’ He laughed. ‘Corkran doesn’t have to “come in from the
cold”. It’s gone out to meet him. That’s real news to you isn’t it?’

His companion did not reply but looked down his nose.

Presently the old man snorted. ‘Damn it. You _had_ heard. How the hell
did you know?’

‘I have second sight,’ said Mr Campion, cheerfully. ‘I must show it to
you. It’s about four inches long, virtually a telescope and . . .’

‘Put a sock in it,’ said Oates. ‘It’s time you learnt to be your age.
And don’t play the fool in front of Throstle, either. He’s a young man
and he’ll take a dislike to you. He thinks everyone older than himself
is Victorian and ought to behave like it. Besides, he’s stretching a
point at my request in letting you see the letters at all. Now you’d
best be getting on your way. He’s a large genial looking chap,
fair-haired, wears a club tie of sorts, cricket I believe, and weighs
around thirteen stone . . .’

‘In fact I can’t miss him. Bless you, my boy.’

They shook hands formally.

‘This is a very tricky one,’ the thin man confessed as they parted. ‘I’m
having to play it with the cards very close to my chest. And between you
and me it’s a pretty poor hand.’

‘Sorry I couldn’t deal you an ace.’

‘Forget it,’ said Mr Campion, ‘and I mean that. But you may have passed
me a joker all the same.’

The door closed gently behind him and after a cautious escape into St
James’s he vanished into the merciful anonymity of a taxi.

                            ★      ★      ★

The Swallow Café was a long dark room with something of the texture of a
doughnut about it: pleasant and padded and a thought sticky. There were
pictures of Portofino and Italian peasant pottery and a row of little
gilt paper gladiators between two of the light fittings which were
shaped like sheaves of lily buds with strong brass stems.

Mr Campion glanced around for the jar in which the wallet had been found
and discovered it at once on a shelf running beside the tables.

The familiar expresso counter at the far end of the room was deserted
and from somewhere behind the wall which backed it a woman’s voice was
raised in bitter complaint.

‘_Ma cammina! Non po’ lasciar’ un posto nuovo fra dieci minuti, sumara.
Che impiastra! Che pazzia!_ . . .’

It was the slackest time of the day and very few of the tables were
occupied but after a first glance round Mr Campion found himself aware
of only one customer, a girl who sat in a corner with her back to the
rounded end of the counter. She was unself-conscious and at ease,
listening to her companion with smiling tolerant interest.

It was not that she was particularly beautiful. Her quality was grace.
It flowed from every bone and curled every line of her into a long
casual frond. She was wearing a pale blue suit under a loose white coat
and her bag lay on the table with her gloves beside it.

She was hatless and her hair was dark as polished ebony, her wide mouth,
laughing and provocative. The extraordinary wave of intrinsic high
fashion and contemporary intelligence drew his attention even before the
tinkling door bell had concluded the announcement of his arrival.

‘I did but see her passing by,’ thought Mr Campion and it was several
seconds until he realised that her companion was Mortimer Kelsey.

The young man, red faced but shamelessly exuberant, rose to his feet
awkwardly as the fixed table pinned his thighs.

‘Ah, Mr Campion,’ he said, ‘I didn’t expect to see you. I wonder if you
know Dr Dido Jones. She’s going down to Saltey this afternoon and I’m
giving her a lift. Won’t you have coffee with us? Actually we’re waiting
for a policeman.’


                             CHAPTER THREE
                            THE SWALLOW CAFÉ

It could well have been an extremely awkward gathering Morty suspected,
but he was too entertained and happy to care. The stale room with its
treacly flavour was by no means unpleasant after the damp outside and he
was sitting next to Dido Jones which made every other circumstance fade
into oblivion.

The plainclothed Sergeant Throstle who had appeared almost upon Mr
Campion’s heels was much as Oates had described him. Like many good
policeman of his type his main message seemed to be that he was no fool
and, on the whole, kindly meant. He drew up a chair to the narrow end of
the table to be sure of conducting the party to his own complete
satisfaction.

It was apparent too that Oates had negotiated Campion’s entry with
discretion, conveying that here was someone to be handled as a V.I.P.
from a different but possibly interconnected world. Throstle
contemplated the boy friend without surprise. How could such a creature
as Dr Jones ever expect to be left without a host of hypnotised
companions? He wondered idly if her patients ever took their minds off
her to consider their ailments.

On the whole the situation pleased him. He disliked poison pen enquiries
but believed that if they had to be handled, the more willing helpers
there were on the side of the victim, the easier was his own task.
Besides, it was a pleasure to feel that at some time in the future the
doctor might be opening wide grateful eyes to express her thanks and to
assure him that he was wonderful.

The centre of attraction, who had engendered a certain amount of
unnatural good humour, sat back contentedly in her corner. Each man
present was aware of her in a different way and she of him, but as with
all natural sirens she did not let the fact worry her.

Mr Campion brought the party to order by turning to Morty.

‘How did _you_ get here?’ he demanded.

The young man grinned sheepishly. ‘I was going down to Saltey any way,
as we arranged. Now it so happens that I knew Dr Jones had a house down
there so I thought I’d ring her up and ask her if by chance she would
like a lift. By chance she did.’

He paused and eyed the older man squarely. ‘Perhaps I ought to say that
I ask her that nearly every day. This time I was lucky.’

Dido smiled, an embracing glance which took in all three men.

‘I’m going down to see the solicitor who’s going to show me the house
I’ve inherited. He wants to give me the keys. I went there once before
with a friend from the hospital but we couldn’t get inside. It was then
that I met Morty. This time I thought I’d camp there for a day and find
out what it’s really like.’ She hesitated. ‘I’m very glad to see both of
you before I go because I’m not at all sure if I ought not to refuse the
whole legacy after all those nauseating letters—except that I expect
that’s just what they hope I’ll do. What do you think?’

Sergeant Throstle looked at her sharply but did not speak, for at that
moment there was a diversion. The proprietress who had been behind the
bar began to serve them. She was a little sallow woman with gold in her
ears and at the sides of her mouth and the same shrill voice which
Campion had heard as he came in.

‘Sorry to keep you waiting but I ’ave no ’elp,’ she said. ‘I just lost
my new girl. I only take ’er on part time and now she runs off. It’s a
wonderful world when you can pick and choose, come and go, just as you
please before you’re twenty-one. Kids today they jus’ don’ wanta work.’

Sergeant Throstle, being the nearest, collected the cups and distributed
them and made no offer to pursue the conversation. He shared them round
the table and stirred himself enough sugar to make the mixture thick as
molasses.

‘It’s these letters which interest you, Mr Campion?’ he said. ‘That’s
right isn’t it?’ He smiled at Dido, confiding and confident, conveying
that he had the advantage of a longer acquaintanceship. ‘It’s a little
off our normal beat as an enquiry but there are one or two aspects about
this particular job which are what you might call intriguing. On the
face of it, it looks more like conspiracy than the work of an evil
minded vixen who’s had her nose put out of joint by a will she didn’t do
so well out of.’

Mr Campion intervened. It was his turn to smile at the doctor. ‘Put me
in the picture,’ he said diffidently. ‘I understand that you’ve been
left this property by an ex-patient? When did this happen?’

‘No patient of mine,’ she said. ‘Old Miss Kytie died about six months
ago and I was rather surprised to hear that she even remembered my name.
I only saw her about half a dozen times and I certainly never treated
her. I’m geriatrics—she was a cardiac.’

‘I see. Begin at the beginning, though. When did you first meet her?’

‘Early last summer. If it’s important I can probably find the date. She
shared a side ward here at St Bots with two other old ladies and one of
them, a Miss Ridgeway, was my patient. I knew Miss Kytie to nod to. The
old things used to chatter away amongst themselves of course, but when a
doctor came to see any one of them the other two were usually very
discreet—you know how they are—’

‘I can guess, I think. But go on.’

‘Well, that was all there was to it. “Good morning. Lovely after the
rain, isn’t it? Did you have a good tea party on Friday? Mr Tanner, your
favourite clergyman, is coming round this afternoon, so save him some
cake.” Nothing more intimate than that. Then one day when I went in to
see Miss Ridgeway unofficially to take her a book she wanted, Miss Kytie
had a visitor, a young man who was fairly obviously a solicitor. She was
very excited and above herself and insisted on introducing us.’

She hesitated. ‘She was one of those old fashioned gushers who talk in
alternate italics. “Oh, _doctor_, this _is_ a _pleasure. Both_ you young
people are so _young. Aren’t_ they, Miss Ridgeway? _So_ young and _so_
handsome!”’ It was an unexpectedly vivid piece of characterisation. She
conjured up a brilliant-eyed harridan clutching a lean bosom, by turns
embarrassing, envious and pathetic.

‘Oho!’ said Morty laughing. ‘Then she wasn’t just a dear old fairy
godmother? I’d imagined something rather cosy but . . .’

‘Oh, no. Cosy isn’t quite the right word. The trouble is that I really
know very little about her as a person. Except, of course, that it was
obvious the moment she opened her mouth that she was living for her will
and the fun she could get out of it. Some people do, you know. The three
old trolls in the ward clearly spent their days chatting it over and
over. But it made Miss Kytie the centre of attraction. She was revelling
in it.’

‘I can see that.’ Throstle was professional. ‘And she introduced the
young man as her solicitor? What was his name? Askew, was it?’

‘That’s right. How clever of you.’ Dido flashed her mind-destroying
smile at him. ‘She told me all about him to his face. She usually
consulted _Percy_, but this was _Hector_, the son, who was just as
clever as his father and was just a _tiny_ bit more understanding. He
_always_ found time to help if one was worried which was _so_
comforting.’

‘Was anything said about you inheriting the house at this meeting—even
in joke?’

‘Oh, no. Of course not. It was simply a lot of arch nonsense about us
two young people getting together. They all saw themselves as
matchmakers and they were having a real ball.’

‘And did you two become acquainted?’

‘We did, as a matter of fact. He’s a forceful character—not so young as
he looks—and I suppose you could say that he made a pass at me. Anyway,
I often seemed to be running into him in the corridor or just outside
the hospital. He rather worked at it, you know. At least he got as far
as taking me out to dinner.’

She was perfectly frank but somehow it was not a completely satisfactory
explanation. All three men sensed it and Morty felt it his duty to
intervene.

‘I think, if I may say so,’ he remarked, ‘that Dr Jones is one of those
people whom people do fall for on sight.’

They turned to look at him and he smiled.

‘Well, I do,’ he said.

Throstle opened his mouth to speak and shut it again without making a
comment.

‘Did you discuss the matter with Miss Kytie at all?’ asked Mr Campion.

‘No. In fact I never saw her again. My patient was moved into another
ward and I’d almost forgotten her. The next thing I knew was some months
later when I had a letter from Hector Askew to say she was dead and had
left me her house and most of the contents. She had a serious heart
condition when she was in hospital and it was obvious that the poor
thing wasn’t going to last very long.’

Dido coloured. It was her first sign of embarrassment. ‘The notion that
she might have been senile when she made her will simply isn’t true. I
don’t think Hector thought so either. I’d say he is a cautious type
where business is concerned. It never occurred to me that _anyone_ could
think so until those letters started arriving.’

Throstle leant forward over the table. ‘These letters,’ he said. ‘I’ve
got photostats of them here, by the way, Mr Campion. They’re rather
unusual. I’d say they were written by at least three separate hands and
possibly seven. Now this suggests conspiracy, especially as they are
addressed to various different persons, the hospital authorities and so
on. Different postmarks too. Some from Saltey, some from London.
Thinking it over, you still have no idea who any of them could be?’

She regarded him with astonishment.

‘I still assume that they must be people who had hoped to inherit
themselves. Who else?’

‘Do you know of any?’

‘Not yet. According to Hector she had no living next of kin if you cut
out really distant cousins. She was over eighty. His firm were her only
advisers and they’ve been in the business so long that they seem to have
the whole district in their pocket. She left quite a lot, one way and
another, apart from the house. Several people did far better than I. But
I’ve been trying to find out about your point. I rang Hector as soon as
he wrote me and I said that I hoped I wouldn’t be depriving someone with
a better right. He said certainly not—I was no more likely or unlikely
than any of the other heirs. Apparently she was always changing her will
and altering the bequests as her old friends died off or she quarrelled
with them. Hector assured me—and he was absolutely positive about
this—that this was the first occasion since he’d had anything to do
with it when everybody concerned was well looked after. What he said was
“As her wills went this was a very good specimen—probably the best”.’

‘You get the house and most of the contents,’ said Throstle. ‘Now
someone must have been in line for that before you—or thought they
were. You’ve no idea who you superseded?’

‘No.’ Dido hit the table with the flat of her hand and Morty placed his
own deliberately over it.

‘I think I do,’ he said unexpectedly. ‘It’s the talk of Saltey. Although
I’m very much a foreigner down there, I’ve been told all about it twenty
times by the locals who use The Demon, where I’m staying, as their
social headquarters. Miss Kytie lived in the Forty Angels hamlet all her
life and she’d been the local heiress ever since her brother died in the
thirties. I really didn’t pay much attention till Dido appeared on the
scene. The old girl seems to have been very careful, not to say
downright skinflint mean and a bit of a mischief maker into the bargain.
She used to play up one person against another and her will has been the
one subject of interest in Saltey for years. Quack, quack, quack. “She
will, you know. She won’t you know. Leave it all to a cats’ home, that’s
what she’ll do, mark my words”.

‘Now I can’t swear to it but my belief is that the person who was
disinherited in favour of Dr Jones got a much more valuable piece of
property in exchange—half the land he farms, in fact. He’s a local
character called Jonah Woodrose who seems to be a distant relative of
everyone in the place but no more a bona fide heir than Dido. My
impression is that they were both used one after the other by the old
lady to annoy somebody else. She did it all the time by hints and nods
and accepting favours whenever some toady offered them.’

‘Who would this somebody else be?’ said Throstle.

‘I haven’t the faintest idea, any more than I can work out who in the
village is related to who. There seems to have been a period, not very
long ago, when even the bicycle was unknown. That name Woodrose, for
example—it’s wonderful when you come to work it out.’

Mr Campion sighed audibly. The sound was so unexpected that it surprised
everyone and they stared at him. He had the grace to look embarrassed.

‘I’m sorry,’ he said, laughing. ‘I was thinking that “they’re all
distant relations” are fatal last words. There is absolutely no tangle
on earth that is so inextricable and frustrating as the English country
family dispute. Time doesn’t come into it. Characters live and die and
never see the beginning or the end. A rural Jarndyce v. Jarndyce can
take a century. If this turns out to be one of those none of us will
ever see the last of it. And meantime, of course, there isn’t a moment
to spare.’

As soon as the words were out of his mouth it was evident that he
regretted them.

‘I was thinking,’ he said lamely, ‘that you two have got quite a journey
before you.’

As a performance it lacked his usual adroitness and Morty was clearly
surprised. He glanced at Dido who gathered up her bag and gloves.
Throstle, like a chairman who hopes to conclude a meeting with some
semblance of having made progress turned to Campion.

‘I’d like you to glance over these photostats and give me your expert
opinion. We’d all appreciate that, I think?’ He produced a large buff
envelope from the folio on the floor by his chair and placed it on the
table.

‘I’d like to say one thing about them before I go.’ Dido spoke with
professional dignity and a touch of anger coloured her cheek. ‘In the
letters which were sent to me and in one of the others I was accused of
influencing a senile patient. Miss Kytie certainly wasn’t senile when I
saw her and I’ve taken the trouble to investigate her medical history
right up to the time she died. Senility is a real condition. Geriatrics
is my subject, so I should know. It doesn’t just mean having white hair
and blue rings round the irises of the eyes. It’s a marked state of
mental deterioration capable of being accurately observed and recorded.
In fact she was a little over-bright. In spite of her heart she actually
died of a cerebral thrombosis and you can take it from me that up to
that moment she was probably quite as sharp and on the ball as she’d
ever been. Certainly Hector thinks so and I’d say he was an expert, with
his sort of experience. He won’t be very pleased if I keep him waiting.
Shall we go, Morty?’

Throstle stood up to let them escape from the confining table.

‘How were you going to get down there if Mr Kelsey hadn’t popped up with
his car?’

‘Oh, I have one of my own,’ she said. ‘I just felt I’d like the
company.’

As they went out of the café, Throstle turned to Campion. ‘If she’s
going to meet one young man it’s funny to take another. What would you
make of that? Does she just hypnotise every man in sight to provide an
escort? Or do you smell a quarrel?’

‘It could be.’

‘Between her and the young solicitor? It crossed my mind it might be
worth passing on to the County. The whole business is their pidgin by
rights, only the complaint started at this end.’ He eyed Campion
shrewdly. ‘This is the place where Teague’s wallet was found. You knew
that, of course? It’s him you’re really interested in, or so the Top
Brass whisper to me. A lot of people would like to know where he is just
now. I wonder why he left that little pointer behind?’

‘A “Kilroy was here” sign, or would someone like you to think so?’

‘I’m not a member of the Coincidence Club myself,’ said the sergeant.
‘The answer is at Saltey—the answer to both enquiries. That’s my bet.
They’ll pick him up down there and good luck to them. We can do without
him in my manor.’ He closed his briefcase. ‘Well, it’s been nice meeting
you, sir. Fancy you knowing old Oates. It was quite a shock to see him
again this morning. He must be older than God and he’s beginning to look
it. Still as bright as a button, though.’

‘Aren’t we all?’ said Mr Campion.

After the rain the pavements were beginning to steam. The promise of
high summer was in the air. He decided to walk, to sort out the elements
of the problem and to restore his own self-respect by approaching his
club without a sense of guilt.

In Soho Square the scent of new cut grass bewitched the air, whispering
of cricket, garden chairs, strawberries and dalliance in the shade.

He strode briskly, almost jauntily, into the Adam brothers’ masterpiece
which is Puffins and was half way across the chessboard hall before the
door porter caught up with him.

‘This came for you about half an hour ago, sir. By hand. I was to give
it to you personally.’

Mr Campion opened the stiff white envelope with misgivings. Inside was a
single sheet of plain paper inscribed in a precise scholarly hand which
was all too familiar. The message was very brief.

‘_I’m afraid that the position has deteriorated. There is very little
time. L.C._’


                              CHAPTER FOUR
                           THE ROAD TO SALTEY

‘Ladies and gents,’ declaimed Morty in the tones of a professional
guide, ‘we are now approaching the site of Mob’s Hole, notorious haunt
of mobsters, dandies, doxies and all the picturesque riff-raff of
seventeenth century London. On my left a prospect of Wanstead Flats and
on my right a car breaker’s yard which seems to have been abandoned
owing to pressure of business.’

He was in tremendous form, elated as a schoolboy, and his companion was
beginning to feel that it was time to cut him down to size.

‘If you drove and talked a little more slowly,’ said Dr Jones, ‘I could
take in more of the lecture. Abandon the Cockney accent which does
nothing for your professional image and remember that I want to meet
Hector, in one piece, at half past six.’

‘Blast his smug go-getting guts.’ Morty was subdued but not defeated.
‘But I must get this off my chest. Bear with me, share my obsessions.
Hear the fruits of my eager researches into this byway of history. If
I’m incoherent the fault is yours. Do all your patients adore you, too?’

‘Get on with your lecture.’

‘If you say so.’ Morty reduced the elegant Lotus Elan to a legal limit.
‘But right now we are at the start of my discovery. New readers begin
here: Mob’s Hole, a sort of roadhouse and open air barbecue, really
existed, you know. Ned Ward the London Spy has a terrific description of
it. It was bang in the middle of that heap of decaying ironmongery
according to the old maps, and apart from being a picnic haunt of
dubious café society, the sort of coxcombs, bullies, whores and pimps
Ward wrote about, it was also notorious as a Safe House, if you know
what that means.’

‘I don’t, but no doubt I’ll learn.’

‘You certainly will if you put up with me for long. Well now, a Safe
House was an inn or a lodging with no questions asked. Suitable for
thieves, smugglers, political refugees—anyone wanted by the
authorities, in fact. You’ll find relics of them dotted all round the
Thames Estuary. A man on the run was naturally afraid of the main roads
with their big coaching inns because they were the obvious places to
watch. The road block idea isn’t new. The Army, the Preventative Men,
the thief catchers and so on have always used it since there was any
sort of law. No, a man who wished to move secretly went, generally by
night, from one Safe House to the next, making for a quiet part of the
coast—some place where smuggling was regarded as being a proper trade
and where inhabitants minded their own business.’

‘Like Saltey?’ suggested Dido.

‘You have it in one, my proud beauty. Mob’s Hole to Mob’s Bowl, in fact.
This was the route and it runs through some pretty queer country as
you’ll find out. London’s back door, with a couple of centuries of
unemptied garbage pails still awaiting collection by the look of it.
It’s a dreary run on the face of it but it has its charm for the likes
of me.’

‘An acquired taste no doubt. Do you include the romance of Gallows
Corner and the Great Southend Road in your saga?’

‘I can do better than that.’ Morty was still enthusiastic. ‘I can dodge
both of them for you if you don’t mind a rough ride. Our eighteenth
century friends didn’t greatly care for that ominous crossroads. They
used a mixture of loops and short cuts. It’s not been easy to trace, and
if I weren’t so brilliant, intuitive and hard-working I would never have
found it. But now that this particular piece of research is completed
I’ll tell you something which really is odd. _Highly remarkable_, as we
say in Saltey.’

‘Go on,’ said Dido. ‘Amaze me if you can. And keep both hands on the
wheel when turning sharp corners if you wish to remain just good
friends.’

‘Sorry.’ Morty was not penitent. ‘But this is genuinely odd. I was
driving down from town last week rather late at night, after midnight in
fact, and using my special route which is particularly impressive at
night because once you’re clear of the streets there are miles where you
hardly pass a house at all and you get a tremendous sense of loneliness.

‘There I was, idling along—you know my style—when I was aware of
someone behind whose headlights were shining in my mirror. I let him
pass, making sure he’d turn off, but not on your sweet life. He was
right with me all the way, ma’am. Once I stopped and smoked a cigarette
just to let him get clear of me in his darned old white jalopy with a
bashed-in tail, but in ten minutes I caught him up again, still dodging
along, just as I was. He even used my special cut through the ghost town
which I always thought was pretty fancy and custom built for me alone.
He fetched up in Saltey. How about that?’

‘Now that certainly is odd.’ Dido straightened her back. ‘Do you know
who it was?’

‘Mr Jonah Woodrose,’ said Morty, ‘whose family name if you trace it back
is as ancient as anything in England. Woodrose—Woodwose. The Foliate
Man, the Green Man, Robin Goodfellow, the nigger in the original
woodpile of Christianity in this country.’

‘Play it cool,’ advised Dido. ‘Fairies and sprites don’t drive elderly
cars. They go in for nutshell chariots, if I remember. But you’ve got a
point there. What’s your theory, master?’

He considered. ‘Could be a sort of inherited memory,’ he said at last.
‘More likely tradition and force of habit. This was the track his
forebears always took to Stratford and the other markets, so this is the
way he goes. With all that inbred blood in his veins he’s likely to be a
creature of habit. I wonder what he was doing in London in any case?’

‘You sound as if you knew the answer.’

Morty hesitated. ‘I don’t, and I wish I did,’ he confessed. ‘But it did
occur to me that he might have gone to post a letter, something that he
didn’t want to arrive with a Saltey postmark.’

Dido shivered involuntarily and to Morty’s delight moved her shoulder a
little closer to him.

‘It’s beastly,’ she said at last. ‘You know, if there was any sentiment
involved in all this I’d give up. I mean, if I was grinding the faces of
the widow and orphan by accepting the house, or doing some splendid
young farmer out of his rightful home I’d be off like a flash. But I’m
not. This is just pure venom and wickedness, and I won’t put up with it.
I’ll . . . I’ll . . .’

‘I love a good fight,’ said Morty. ‘I’m right by your side, lady. When
you stick out your chin like that you could have my entire kingdom just
for the pleasure of holding your coat. I could start, of course, by
holding your hand.’

‘You’ll keep your hands on the wheel,’ said Dr Jones tartly.

Morty, sliding a glance at her, realised not without surprise that she
was a grown woman, competent, finely tempered and not quite the
beleaguered sylph he had been picturing in his daydreams. The thought
depressed him and he drove in silence for a twisting mile.

‘I suppose you do know where you’re going?’ she enquired at last. The
road they were following had become little more than an open track
through coarse grassland. An occasional broken fence marked a boundary
and an empty bungalow standing isolated in an expanse of uneven ground,
distemper peeling from its blind stucco face, emphasised the desolation.
A narrow board nailed to a post displayed the words ‘Victoria Crescent’
in fading Gothic print.

‘This is my Ghost Town,’ explained Morty with a certain pride. ‘Not
unlike the shanty towns of the Gold Rush days—very like them in spirit,
now I come to think of it. It’s a derelict area and I’d say it always
will be. A swamp which used to be called The Trough. In fact it is the
site of an old land swindle, the sort of thing which was popular at the
turn of the century. The operator bought a parcel of quite useless
country, fairly near to one of the newish rail tracks, marked out a
grandiose development scheme on a map—the Royal Esplanade, the shopping
centre. Empress Avenue and so on—and divided the whole area into plots
of half an acre or so apiece.

‘Then he brought down a load of suckers by special train, which you
could in those days, gave them a champagne lunch in a marquee erected
for the occasion and held a sale. By then everyone was as high as a kite
and the promoter sold off his land at a fantastic profit. One or two of
the poor boobs actually built their dream homes here, but the roads and
drains and the Town Hall never appeared. Probably the neatest real
estate trick in the calendar and darned nearly legal, too.’

Dido wrinkled her nose. ‘And all on the back road to Saltey,’ she said.
‘It’s been a great experience but I think I’ll let Hector get me back
tomorrow by some orthodox method, like taking me to a railway station.’

‘Damn Hector.’

They drove in silence for some time through an area of new open planned
villas, writhing television masts, mini cars and mass produced
respectability. The uncompromising predictability of street after street
was as depressing as the straggling wasteland they had passed through
and they intuitively shared the relief of reaching open countryside
again. It was flat and uninspiring but now there was a tang of salt in
the air and the rain-black road snaked between carefully tended fields,
occasional weather-boarded farms with stridently new outbuildings and
elm trees which were gnarled and bent by the coastal wind.

‘The last of the old forest is just ahead,’ said Morty. ‘That bit of a
rise on our left is probably the highest point for miles. They’d have
felled that timber years ago if the land was worth cultivating, but from
now on it’s sour ground, mostly. That’s what protects Saltey from
civilisation—it’s on the road to nowhere and you have to make a great
U-shaped detour to get there anyway. It’s virtually an island cut off by
the saltings.’

The scrawny woodland had retreated from the verge and the road curved
gently to the left approaching a sharp T-shaped corner where the
signpost read ‘_Saltey only. No through road._’ An ugly red brick
farmhouse with a slated roof stood at the corner with its barns and
pigsties hard against the tarmac. Tattered posters proclaimed that there
had been an auction of livestock and furniture some time since and a
notice board announced that the entire freehold property was for sale.

‘What the hell!’ Morty pulled the car up with a squeal.

Ahead of them two cars were drawn up half blocking the road and
immediately beyond, barring the way completely, was a laundryman’s van,
skewed directly across the turning. A push bicycle leant against the
wall.

‘Looks like an accident,’ said Dido, becoming professional. ‘I’ll go and
see.’

They got out together and as they approached the van they saw that a
group of people were conferring beyond it. A young policeman, his
trousers still in bicycle clips, eased himself gingerly round the
obstruction and came towards them smiling sheepishly.

‘Been a bit o’ trouble,’ he said. ‘I can’t be in two places at once, can
I?’ He turned and raised his voice to include the three men who stood
together in the lane behind him. ‘I wonder if one of you gentlemen would
mind doing a little traffic duty at the corner or we’ll have both roads
blocked? Now sir, if you’re going to Saltey you’ll have to wait, and if
you’re not will you please move on?’

Dido pushed forward.

‘I’m a doctor,’ she said. ‘Is anyone hurt? Morty, you can keep the road
clear for a minute. Is there anything I can do?’

‘It’s hard to say, miss. I’ve only just arrived, coming from Firestone.’
The constable was flustered. ‘If you can get round here you’ll see what
the trouble is. There’s a young girl—or I think it’s a girl. She may be
hurt but she won’t say.’

Beyond the van in the neck of the lane the cause of the confusion was
immediately clear. The road was covered with broken bottles which had
been systematically smashed and distributed across the surface for
several yards. The van which had been approaching Saltey had driven
right into the vicious, jagged trap and had skidded to a halt.

Not far from it lay a motor cycle whose owner, dressed in bedraggled
black leather and a white crash helmet, stood disconsolately beside it,
a muddy back turned to the rest of the company.

Dido, whose shoes were not designed for such treatment, picked her way
delicately towards the solitary figure.

‘Are you all right?’ she said. ‘What happened to you?’

The black back turned further away and Dido repeated her question.

‘Are you all right?’

There was still no response. Dido took a step forward and swung the
leather torso deftly towards her. Its owner had clearly not been
expecting such treatment, for the eyes behind the mica visor of the
helmet gleamed venom.

‘I’m a doctor,’ said Dido firmly. ‘So don’t be silly. If you’re hurt at
all, you’d better tell me.’

‘Oh, get knotted!’

There was no doubt now about the sex of the motor cyclist. She was very
female, and very angry and twitching with suppressed emotion. A smear of
mud and blood down her cheek did not hide the fact that she was white
with rage and excitement. Jerking away from Dido she addressed herself
to the world at large.

‘Can’t one of you bastards give me a hand?’

The driver of the van who had been examining the damage to his tyres
shuffled towards her, kicking the glass from his way. He and the
policeman lifted the machine upright.

‘Fork’s twisted,’ said the van man. ‘You were plumb lucky, miss, he
nearly ran you down.’ He considered the massively engined monster with a
mechanic’s eye. ‘Not much wrong with it, I’d say. Nothing that a wrench
wouldn’t cure. It’s a heavy old thing. Sure you’re O.K.?’

A shout from over the wall interrupted the discussion and a burly golden
head which could only have belonged to a countryman appeared. An elderly
birch broom was waved aloft.

‘That’ll do the trick now, won’t it?’ he said triumphantly. ‘Someone’s
been having a rare old game here, by the looks of it. That’ll give you
something for your notebook, eh, Mr Simmonds? Better than hanging round
that old Demon come closing time.’

He was a large man, remarkably pleased with himself. Vaulting the wall
with the agility of real strength he began to sweep with energy and
precision. The two other men followed him, kicking at stray fragments.

‘A proper mystery for you, Mr Simmonds,’ he continued, ‘not but what I
could give you a tip where to look. Young tearaways. That’s what you
want to go after if you want my advice. And when you find ’em take the
buckle end of your belt to them and ask your questions afterwards. Only
sort of talk those young devils understand . . .’

Dido returned to Morty. Some of the girl’s anger seemed to have infected
her and she took his arm sharply as a support whilst she pulled off a
shoe to remove a fragment of glass.

‘Little bitch!’ she said. ‘One of your friends from the sea wall, I
suppose. Damn lucky not to have hurt herself and she curses like a
fishwife when I try to help. That machine’s far too heavy for her
anyhow. This is a foul place, Morty. If it weren’t for Hector—and—’

‘That’s the only good thing I’ve ever heard about your infernal legal
eagle,’ said the young man. ‘At least it means I’ll see more of you.
Whilst I’ve been on point duty I’ve also been having a snoop around.
There’s a great pile of bottles behind that wall, all neatly stacked—or
they were. Previous owner quite a connoisseur. Champagne, Haut Brion,
Mouton Rothschild, Volnay . . . all the best labels. Perhaps that’s why
he gave up farming.’

‘Perhaps,’ agreed Dido. ‘Don’t look now, but isn’t one of those cars a
white Ford with a badly dented boot?’

‘It is, and Mr Jonah Woodrose in person is now sweeping the road and
directing the proceedings. None of them can have been here long. Miss
Tearaway probably took the corner at speed and came off very lightly
considering that she might have cut herself to pieces, smartly followed
by the Nine Ash Hygienic Steam Laundry. P.C. Simmonds is the local
sheriff and not a very bright specimen. Saltey doesn’t take kindly to
the law. I don’t think he arrived with the speed of light, but merely
happened to be cycling this way.’

‘I have a feeling,’ said Dido, her arm still linked with Morty’s as they
kept guard over the main road, ‘that this was intended as part of the
Welcome Home celebration for me. _Beware of our dog, it eats strangers
on sight._ I can’t see why or how anybody knew when I’d be arriving.
It’s just a nasty little itch in my bones.’

‘Don’t forget that I’m going to hold your coat for you, lady.’

Dido’s chin came forward. ‘Looks like you may have to,’ she said, ‘But
the more I think of it the more I scent organised opposition. You don’t
know me very well—in fact you don’t know me at all—but I just won’t be
bullied. I come of a large family, all males, and I know something about
getting my own way.’

Morty chuckled with delight. ‘That’s the spirit, my girl. There’s a
saying in these parts—I picked it up in The Demon—“_I won’t be knocked
out of my Know_”. We’ll defy the foul fiend together. And to hell with
the Forty Angels and Hector Askew, too, now I come to think of it.’

‘Poor man,’ said Dido. ‘He hates being kept waiting. I ought to have
been there nearly an hour ago. At least I’ve got a good excuse.’

The roar of a motor cycle exhaust announced that its owner was departing
for Saltey at speed and in a moment P.C. Simmonds appeared round the
van, notebook in hand.

‘I’d best take your name, just in case,’ he said. ‘Though I think I know
you, sir. You’re the American gentleman, aren’t you from The Demon. And
you’re a doctor, miss? You wouldn’t be the lady who’s come into Miss
Kytie’s house, by chance?’

There was a half smile on his face as he spoke which suggested that he
was going to add ‘_and much good will it do you_’ but he clearly
suppressed the thought.

‘The van has a tyre that’s been cut and he doesn’t carry a spare. He
will move the vehicle away to the side in a minute which will just give
you room to get past.’ He cocked a speculative eye at the pair. ‘You
_do_ want to go to Saltey, I suppose?’

‘We’re both going to live there,’ said Morty firmly, ‘so spread the good
news around.’

The afternoon was fading as the procession finally moved off. The road
swept round in a long erratic curve between low cut butchered hedges
separating heavy fields where the saltings, on which nothing but sour
grass will grow, had been held at bay by deep drainage. A straggling of
bungalows and villas announced the village itself which was dominated by
the squat Norman tower of St Michael’s mantled in elms. It was remote,
disinterested and apparently deserted, a huddle of mixed dwellings
ranging from Tudor to Edwardian, each sited without consideration for
its neighbours. Chapel brick and corrugated iron rubbed shoulders with
white weatherboard and oak beams which had escaped the restorer’s art.

The heart of the hamlet was marked by a patch of grass not large enough
to be dignified by the title of Green, flanked on one side by cottages
and on the other by The Angel, a sad hostelry which clearly found little
favour with its intended public. It stood back from the road and the
space in front of it provided a parking area now occupied by a single
small station wagon.

‘Hector’s here,’ said Dido sombrely. ‘He won’t be pleased with us.
That’s his car. He’ll be up at the Hollies, that’s the official name of
the house. It’s a difficult drive to get into.’

The late Miss Kytie’s property lay some fifty yards ahead on their left.
It was a solid double fronted late Georgian residence faced with stucco,
to which two ill-proportioned bow windows had been added. Dark hollies
flanked it and at the far side was a brick wall concealing a lady garden
with trees beyond. A white five-barred gate stood open at a rakish angle
and gave on to a circular drive in the centre of which was a group of
unpruned rose trees guarded by a miniature box hedge. Weeds sprouted
from the pebbled pathway and on the ground floor the blinds were drawn.

Morty negotiated the difficult approach with skill and brought the Lotus
to a halt directly in front of the pillared porch. He ran up the two
steps which led to the door and tried the handle. It did not respond.

‘Try ringing,’ said Dido. ‘He’s bound to be here.’

A tug at a wrought iron bell pull which creaked at the unaccustomed
insult brought a faint tinkling jangle from somewhere far inside, but
the echoes died away without producing any other result. The light was
now beginning to wane and the air was soft and melancholy after the
downpour of the morning.

Morty raised his hand for a second attempt when Dido caught his arm.

‘Listen,’ she said. ‘There must be someone at home. I can hear music.’

They stood immobile with ears strained. From the depths of the house,
faint but unmistakable, came the adenoidal moan of the Mersey beat:

‘_I wanna be your rave_ . . .’

‘Damn him,’ said Morty. ‘He’s got a blasted transistor going and he
can’t hear anything else. One more try here and if that fails we’ll take
him from the rear.’

He wrenched violently at the handle as he spoke and put his shoulder to
the panelling. To his surprise the effort was successful. The door
groaned, hesitated mutinously and finally swung back in surrender. The
interior was dim with twilight, a cluttered curtained gloom which
offered no welcome.

‘Hector!’ shouted Dido. ‘Hector, where are you?’

Distant and elusive Mersey voices wailed but there was no other
response. Morty began to move purposefully through the house, flinging
back curtains and shutters raising protesting dust in his wake. He
returned without success and they paused together to listen.

‘It’s down this way,’ said Dido at last. ‘It must lead to the
greenhouse—a sort of garden room built on the side. I saw it when I
walked round without the keys.’

A narrow passage led them to a half glass door and beyond it they found
a green overgrown arbour full of ferns and smelling of eucalyptus. The
place was furnished with dilapidated cane chairs and a low table filled
the centre space. On it stood the tell-tale transistor still bleating
out a history of woe. The largest chair in the room was a vast
fan-backed affair with wide curling arms containing pockets for
magazines and a tumbler, a relic of colonial glory designed for
chota-pegs and gracious tropical verandahs. In it sat a man, his head
bent forward on his chest and his arms gripping the sides.

Morty, who had snatched up the transistor in some anger, switched it off
and they stood looking at the stranger. There was about him a
frightening ageless loneliness as if he had been carved out of stone.

Dido took a step forward and caught at her breath, aware that the hairs
at the back of her neck were rising. She shook herself involuntarily and
became professional with a disciplined effort.

Very gently she took hold of Hector Askew’s shoulders and leant his body
back against the cushions. His eyes were wide open and his head lolled
awkwardly to one side. It did not need expert knowledge to tell either
of them that he was dead, but it was some minutes before Dr Jones
straightened her back and looked her companion in the face.

‘I thought he must have had a seizure of some sort,’ she said. ‘But he
hasn’t. I think he’s been shot. Very silly of me not to spot it straight
away.’

Suddenly her composure broke and Morty held out his arms to her. The
fact that she was human enough to weep and be afraid was the one comfort
he found in an ugly world.


                              CHAPTER FIVE
                        THE COMPANY AT THE DEMON

The investigation of homicide in England is subject to the same
considerations which control most other enterprises in contemporary
life. This means that laws of economics and the shortage of manpower put
a limit on the time and staff which can be devoted to any one problem.

The chain of enquiries into the death of Hector Askew began with P.C.
Simmonds, who was just starting an evening meal in his cottage when the
news reached him, and ran from him to his superior at Nine Ash, thence
to Chelmsford and finally to Scotland Yard. The possible connection
between the murder and the poison pen outbreak was remarked with
commendable speed and Sergeant Throstle found himself seconded to a
murder squad to which he did not properly belong, under the leadership
of Superintendent Gravesend, an officer who delighted in being called
dynamic when his activities were noticed by the Press. By midnight there
were five official cars parked outside the Angel and the inn itself did
unexpectedly good business until it closed its doors to the general
public with stop watch precision.

Dido spent an uncomfortable night in an attic bedroom at The Demon and
slept fitfully. The Superintendent and his team did not sleep at all,
nor did they expect to. The modern intensive system of enquiry, which is
to work with unremitting pressure until a case is broken, had found a
high priest in Gravesend. He guarded his reputation with the care of a
gardener watching over a rare plant, for it was his intention to retire
early and to move on to better paid appointments.

Throstle disliked him dispassionately but the situation was out of his
control.

By Sunday evening The Hollies had been searched from junk room to tool
shed and before nightfall every inch of the overgrown garden and the
copse beyond it had been trampled, beaten, prodded and given the
appearance of an area recently tenanted by a battalion of cantankerous
livestock. Nothing of any consequence was discovered.

Hector Askew, it was established, had arrived at Saltey at about four
o’clock on the afternoon of Friday, some two and a half hours before his
appointment with Dido. He had left his car outside the Angel and gone
directly to the house, where he had apparently unlocked all three outer
doors and opened two windows at the back. But he had not been seen alive
since he had walked up the drive. The transistor was his property and he
was in the habit of using it to obtain racing results.

No one had heard an identifiable shot and this was not remarkable since
two young men admitted spending their afternoon shooting at rooks and
three motor cyclists had rushed through the village headed for Mob’s
Bowl without benefit of silencer.

By Tuesday evening three hundred and twelve grudging statements had been
taken, signed, co-ordinated, corroborated and their makers temporarily
eliminated. Askew had died at some time between five and six as a result
of a shot from a 3.8 pistol which had not been discovered.

On Thursday in the early evening the Superintendent sat in P.C.
Simmonds’ office parlour and looked morosely from his official report to
his private notes. He had drawn a complete blank and no amount of detail
or of word spinning could change the fact. Saltey had treated him and
his squad with what amounted, in his opinion, to dumb insolence but he
could find no loophole in the facade, nothing to suggest conspiracy or
even simple concealment by omission.

The population, in the local Inspector’s phrase, was pig ignorant and
was enjoying the fact.

The odd incident of the broken glass at the corner of the main road
puzzled him but he found no enlightenment. The murderer could
conceivably have left the village before it occurred or even have placed
the barrier there to delay discovery, but he was tolerably certain that
in fact no one had left the village during the vital hour. He put the
affair down to the viciousness of modern youth, which was the accepted
opinion, but left a query beside it in his notes.

Wider researchers had uncovered a scandalous affair between the dead man
and an ex-secretary of the family firm, but the lady had been married
and divorced since that period and was now much engaged as a
receptionist and managerial friend in a hotel on the Isle of Wight.
Apart from an occasional expensive winter cruise to the Mediterranean
and the Near East with cultural overtones, Hector’s life for the past
five years made remarkably dull reading. Nevertheless the Superintendent
wrote the word ‘womaniser’ in his notes and as an afterthought
underlined it, adding a query. He stared gloomily at his handiwork for
some time, but found no enlightenment. Finally he drew a line across the
sheet of paper and inscribed the initials N.U.P.S.H. beneath it in block
capitals.

Throstle was sitting on the far side of the table opposite his superior
and from long training had the habit of reading upside down. He raised
his eyebrows.

‘That’s a new one on me.’

‘It dates from the war, my lad. Same like T.A.B.U. and C.U.M.F.U. A
favourite of my old boss in the S.I.B. in the days when preventing Arabs
from sneaking motor tyres was the most important job on earth. Damn near
impossible too. If you must know, it stands for “No Useful Purpose
Served Here” and that’s the long and the short of it as far as I’m
concerned at the moment. I’m sorry but this was agreed at the morning
conference.’

He folded the sheet of notes precisely and tucked them into a wallet.

‘You’ll stay on here until you can get a lever into some little crevice.
Run over the depositions, see who you can shift—you know the form. The
answer is either here in the shape of someone who thinks the house is
rightly theirs or at Nine Ash, in which case you want an angry husband
or a young woman in the pudding club. Quarter the ground every which
way, and keep all concerned on the hop. Report in the usual way and if
anything breaks ring me at once. Understood?’

He stood up and straightened his back wearily. ‘And another thing . . .’

‘Yes?’

‘The mattress of Simmonds’ spare bed is made of broken bricks. If you
must sleep, stay on at the Angel. I’ll give you a week. Liaise with the
County. You’ll find the man at Nine Ash is the best bet. He’s an old
timer called Branch who’ll tell you all the local dirt, if you can
understand what he’s saying. If no one cracks, then we’re just wasting
our time on what ought to be a local job.’

At precisely the same time, which coincided in Fleet Street with the
evening conferences, four London news editors were reaching the same
conclusion. The adjourned inquest had revealed nothing and the
significant phrase ‘The investigations are continuing’ was on the lips
of the official P.R.O. at the Yard. Good reporters are scarce and there
was better game afoot. The invasion of Saltey was over and the cash
tills at The Angel and The Demon returned overnight to their normal
rhythm.

Morty found himself disconsolate and the depth of his feelings surprised
and worried him. Dido had returned to London and he was in a mood of
bored malaise. He had spent most of the day prodding at the marsh turf
covering the site of the pre-Norman fort, a desolate piece of
comparatively high ground by the sea wall which offered a commanding
view of Mob’s Bowl and the huddle of the Forty Angels a quarter of a
mile distant on the inland side. Through his glass he surveyed the
nearer hamlet which was dominated by the church of St Polycarp, a
decaying late Norman shell without a tower, reputed to be dangerous and
only used on token occasions. Near it stood a cluster of cottages in
brick and weatherboard whose slate roofs uncompromisingly prevented them
from being picturesque. Some modern caravans and a small green tent
completed the group. The Bowl itself was empty at this hour, an expanse
of greasy mud which sucked in sluggish resentment at the ebbing tide. In
better days there had been a boatyard, still marked by sheds and a
railed slipway running to the water’s edge and a group of four sail
lofts in lichen grey weatherboard one of which was surmounted by a
weathercock above a wooden lantern. Three small rowboats were pulled up
on to the hard and several skeleton hulks lay inert in the grey slime.

The Demon itself was an L-shaped building, part weatherboard and part
plaster over brick. It had a mansard roof in which there were dormer
windows but despite its three floors it appeared squat and sturdy,
having the painted and tarred patina which coastal buildings acquire
over the years. Only the touches of white and green, the trimmings of
geranium tubs and benches, gave it a rakish air, that of a middle-aged
man who dons an unlikely hat for a children’s party. It stood squarely
beside the Bowl separated from the waterside by a broad frontage of
pebbled earth which was edged by baulks of timber sunk into the mud.
Bollards proclaimed that this had once been a working quay. Seagulls
circled perpetually around a white flagstaff and only the incongruous
new sign offended the young man’s eye.

From where he stood Morty surveyed the back yards and the outhouses,
noting the arrival of an elderly Morris Minor from whose interior there
emerged a figure of such ponderous bulk that the performance took on
something of the quality of a conjuring trick. Magersfontein Lugg, Mr
Campion’s other emissary in Saltey, had arrived at the inn for vesper
refreshment and there was something about the self-importance of his
movements which suggested that the old man was bringing news. The idea
afforded Morty some pleasure. Dido, with luck, would be banished from
his thoughts. After all, he had more important things to worry about.

The saloon bar of The Demon was much as it had been for a hundred years.
It was dark, warm, heavily varnished and smelled pleasantly of beer,
baking and scrubbing soap. On the shelves behind the long counter there
were concessions to modernity in the shape of miniature bottles, a coyly
indecent calendar, bureaucratic edicts concerning drinking hours and a
large handwritten card which announced:

                              DEMON CAKES

                 Made from the original recipe—1/- each
                    Box of 6 packed to take away—5/-
                   ‘The History of the Saltey Demon’
                            by H.O. Wishart
                           On sale here: 2/6d

When Morty entered there were already two customers, an old man sitting
in the gloom of the ingle corner at the end of the bar, whose red rimmed
eyes were the only living thing in a face which otherwise appeared to be
moulded in suet, and the portentous figure of Mr Lugg outlined against
the light from a door behind the bar. He was a large man, a thought
melancholy, with a bald head and a clipped greying moustache which
suggested that it was the relic of a darker and more luxuriant growth.
He had discarded his flat cap and overcoat to reveal a white expanse of
sweater and now leaned against the bar, a tankard in his hand. His
accent was thick as a London fog.

‘Wotcher, cock.’

Morty responded conventionally to the greeting.

‘Good evening. Good evening, all.’

‘Still grubbing around in the ’istoric past, I see from the muck on your
boots.’ Mr Lugg was disposed to be conversational. ‘Not my period,
reely, the Roman caper, togas and all that gear. If I ’ad to make a
choice it would be Restoration, what you might term the Dawn of Gracious
Livin’. I could fancy meself in a wig, leather sports coat and a touch
of lace at the wrists but not in a purple cotton mini-skirt and a laurel
wreath.’

‘I take your point.’

‘Exackly. I see my architects today and nice la-di-da shower they are, I
might add. Trying to flog me the open plan lark. Asking me to live in a
ruddy shop window so that ’alf Saltey can see if I’ve changed me dickey
before I partake of me deep frozen ah lah cart. I give ’em my views on
the subject and they looked at me like something that ought to be sent
to an ’ome.’

‘Was that at Nine Ash? Did you see anyone else there?’

Mr Lugg’s foot brushed sharply against his shin and the big man
continued, his tone becoming loud with warning. ‘Neo-Georgian might be
the ticket—in a bijou style, of course. Now what about a touch of pig’s
ear? Think you could keep down a pint?’

Dixie Wishart, hostess of The Demon, who had appeared behind the bar was
smiling and matronly, her rather old-fashioned good looks sitting oddly
beneath hair that had suffered from a blue rinse giving it alarming
heliotrope lights in the massed curls above her forehead. A plastic
apron decorated with continental bottle labels added another luminous
touch and she rustled as she moved.

‘Sorry, I missed you when you came in, Mr Kelsey dear. What’s it going
to be?’

Mr Lugg gave the order. ‘My friend will take ’is restorative in your
other pewter mug if it ’asn’t bin knocked off by the visiting narks. And
you’d better give the old ’un his usual.’

‘That’s sweet of you.’ She raised her voice and addressed the immobile
figure in the corner. ‘Very kind of Mr Lugg, isn’t it? Here’s a drink
for you, Mossy love. Don’t forget your manners. Wipe your nose first and
say thank you.’

A thin grey hand slipped towards the bar with accustomed if surprising
agility. The red rimmed eyes flickered and the glass was raised in
salutation.

‘Properly kind, I’m sure. I see The Demon once when I was nobbut a boy.
I say I seed the Demon . . .’

Dixie returned to her other guests. ‘Don’t let him go into the
lecture—he still thinks you’re tourists and that’s what’s expected of
him. He’s my mascot really, poor old gentleman. Over eighty, he is. Very
good for trade in the summer. Helps to sell my cakes and H.O.’s little
book. I made a new batch today, if either of you fancy one for your
dinner?’

‘What’s in them this time?’ enquired Morty. ‘I smelt them when I came
in.’

‘Same as ever, of course, dear.’ Dixie was on her dignity. ‘Ginger and
cinnamon and eggs and cream, all baked like shortbread. It’s the
original recipe handed down from H.O.’s grandmother. She was there, you
know: she saw the Demon too.’

‘So you say,’ said Morty. ‘And very good for trade. I wish I could find
something more tangible than your husband’s beautiful little essay in
whimsy to use in my own researches. A good cook and a poet may create a
legend but I’m supposed to be a historian, so where do I go for honey?
Don’t give me old Mossy in the corner as a reliable witness.’

‘There’s nothing wrong with his memory of the past,’ retorted Dixie with
spirit. ‘It’s only today he’s a bit shaky about. And if you’re not more
civil about my Demon I’ll make him go through it again and again. Every
session takes twenty minutes and costs a round of doubles, including
me.’

She raised her voice again. ‘You’ll tell ’em, won’t you, Mossy? You
_did_ see him, didn’t you.’

The old man lifted his rheumy eyes.

‘That I did,’ he said. ‘I seed that acomin’ down the road as clear as
yesterday. I see a lot of things in my time and that’s the truth, so it
is now. I seed the old Prince of Wales when he was a boy. I seed a
Zeppelin burn up like a firework show. I seed Jonah Woodrose drink a
gallon o’ beer come Jubilee night when he wasn’t a grown man and never
draw a breath.’

He scanned the company cautiously and nodded his head.

‘And I seed Matt Parsley alying in his own coffin what he made for my
sister, the morning they found him stiff as dried seaweed. If that
weren’t Demon’s work I never seed nothing. And I’ll thank you to give me
half o’ mild, Mrs Wishart.’

He had undoubtedly made an effect. Their hostess cleared her throat
noisily and turned on him with a swish of her apron.

‘That’ll do now, Mossy. Don’t you go telling tales out of school or
you’ll get the place a bad name. One Demon’s enough in these parts and
we don’t want any more fancy work. Don’t you listen to him, Mr Kelsey
dear. He’ll fill your head with rubbish.’

‘Oh, but that was great!’ Morty was delighted. ‘Like old home week in
the Catskill Mountains. Let him have his say.’

Dixie bristled. Two spots of angry colour in her cheeks emphasised her
wrath.

‘Not in my bar, he won’t. He’s a silly old fool and I won’t have my nice
little tale mixed up with a lot of dirty village scandal that’s got
nothing to do with it.’

Mr Lugg nudged his companion and whispered breathily, ‘Tell you later,
cock. ’Omely little news item it is, now I come to think of it. Go well
with a plate of liver and bacon.’

The long low room was beginning to fill with its regular evening
customers and from the kitchen behind the bar came the appetising
crackle of cooking. Dixie Wishart rustled efficiently from barrel to
counter and it was some time before Morty could make his peace with her.

‘Where’s H.O. tonight?’ he asked, as she paused beside him to accept a
light for a cigarette. She was only partially mollified.

‘Doing the chef, poor darling. He’s been what he calls over-hung all
day, which means he had a drop too much last night. I should know. He
didn’t get to bed until two and snored like a pig until dawn. You’d
better skip along and get the good table, the pair of you, if you want
any service. The policeman from London will be coming in later and
who’ll want to talk in front of him?’

The dining room at the inn led out of the saloon bar and also looked
directly on to the Bowl. It was furnished in sound Victorian taste, with
rounded mahogany chairs upholstered in leather that had once been red
and a surprising collection of Rowlandson prints. Rainbow bright
tablecloths did their best to reduce the atmosphere to that of a tea
shop. Two schools of contrasting taste were also evident in the mixture
of pewter and plastic which made up the salt cellars and pepper pots.

Mr Lugg devoted himself to his food with concentration and energy, only
pausing for light conversation when Dixie made her appearance to produce
the cheese.

‘Two loos, ladies and gents, on the ground floor, that’s what I’m going
after,’ he remarked for her benefit. ‘Nosh in the kitch-bath. Main
lounge with fitted bar. Boodwah corner for telly. Wot more could you
ask?’

‘Got a name for it yet?’ enquired Morty.

‘S’matter of fact, I ’ave. Considering wot the rest of the place is
called. I thought of calling mine “The Villa Lug ’ole”.’ He sucked a
tooth reflectively.

‘Right. Now that she’s scarpered for a bit, I’ll give you the lowdown on
Matt Parsley. Undertaker carpenter and rowboats built, that’s what he
was and lived very convenient to the church where that big black shed is
right now. Now one morning, twenty years ago—and that’s a date ’is
Lordship ’as been arskin’ about though he won’t condescend to say
why—one morning they found ’im dead as ’orsemeat and twice as ugly by
all accounts, lying in one of ’is own coffins.’

‘Laid out like a corpse?’ Morty was incredulous.

‘Well, not exackly. Shame to muck up a beautiful lump of wot you might
term imagery, but the poor old worm fancier ’ad ’ad a ’eart attack, or
so the doc said. Natural death, classy funeral, wreaths from the Sons of
Lebanon, the British Legion, the Ladies’ Guild and sorrowing family. All
very ah lar. But ’e was found ’alf in and ’alf out of a nice box of ’and
finished pine, bung in the middle of the floor.’

He consumed a final morsel of cheese.

‘I bin into the facts. Not with old Mossy, who’s so far round the bend
’e can see ’imself coming, but with one or two that do remember. Seems
like ’e goes trundling up the road to Forty Angels wiv ’is box on a
barrer, late at night like wot is customary in the trade, old Mossy’s
sister being dead and lying there in ’er bed waiting for him. ’E never
got there. Hours later ’e comes trundlin’ back with ’is box still empty,
runs the ’ole issue into the shop and corpses ’isself right across it.
Barrer tips up, coffin slips down and there’s Matt Parsley lyin’ among
the shavins wiv ’is ’ead in the coffin where Mossy’s sis’s feet ’ad
orter bin. Simple, reely. ’Cept for one thing.’

‘Why did he turn back?’

‘Exackly. Might ’ave bin took ill on the way, o’ course, but them as
’eard ’im go into the yard where there’s paving and cobbles by the
stabling, say ’e come ’ome on the trot. And there’s another little
item.’

‘Yes?’

‘’Appened on a Monday night. Coffin wasn’t due till the Tuesday. His
regular mate was off duty and wasn’t there to ’elp ’im with the corp,
like wot ’e orter ’ave bin.’

‘That surely is strange, brother. Something must have happened between
here and Forty Angels. Don’t tell me he saw the Demon, had a long chat
with him about what he’d been doing since 1898 and frightened himself
into a fit.’

‘Might ’ave, of course. Then again ’e might ’ave taken a drop too much,
gorn off too soon, fell in a ditch, remembered what day of the week it
was and come ’ome in such an ’urry that ’is poor old ’eart give out.
That’s the Official Voo, according to the doctor’s ’andout. I don’t go
for it meself.’

‘Why not?’

‘’E didn’t drink, not to speak of. Particular kind of bloke by all
accounts. Everything shipshape and on the dot. You know wot I reckon,
mate?’

‘I’d certainly like to.’

Mr Lugg swilled the last of his beer around the tankard, lifted it to
his mouth and appeared to pour the contents directly from lips to
stomach.

‘I reckon,’ he said at last, ‘that if we knew the answer to that one
we’d know wot this ’ole perishing shooting match is about.’

Their conversation was interrupted by the arrival of Sergeant Throstle
whose broad shoulders were emphasised by the Houndstooth jacket he
considered appropriate for country enquiries. With him was a thin sad
faced individual whose grey suit, creased and a trifle greasy, was so
deliberately non-committal that it could only have belonged to a minor
government official. The C.I.D. man waved to Morty and favoured him with
a wink but settled himself and his companion in the farthest corner.
They were talking in undertones and Mr Lugg, having made an overt effort
to catch the murmur, finally turned back to Morty. The sound of a
transistor beating out a history of frustrated love drifted from the
bar.

‘Unless old Dickybird and that other rozzer ’ave got the place bugged,
which ain’t likely,’ he remarked, ‘we’re as private ’ere as a flea
circus wot’s gorn out of business. I’ve bin making researches today,
looking up me contacts as you might say, and I’ve ’appened on a little
something wot the official narks ’aven’t cottoned to yet.’

‘You’ve been in Nine Ash all day?’

‘Exackly.’ Mr Lugg was very pleased with himself and was savouring the
moment for which he had clearly been waiting. ‘I come across an old pal
in the Black Bull there. Not a nice class of person, reely. Name of
Good, which is wot you might call sick ’umour. ’Orrible face, ’orrible
nature and ’orrible record.’

He shook his head reflectively. ‘’Orace Good is not the article, an’
that’s a fact.’

‘What does he do for a living?’

‘’E’s done most things in ’is time from ’ouse breaking to bookies
runnin’ and informing but ’e’s an old man now and ’e’s a sweeper. Works
at the ’ospital there and does all the truly filthy jobs wot you,
personally, wouldn’t demean yerself with. ’E also cleans up the morgue
and keeps ’is ’ear’oles open. ’E was there when they took a dekko at the
late ’Ector Askew deceased.’

Morty leaned closer, for Mr Lugg’s voice had sunk to a whisper.

‘What was his big news?’

‘’E saw the medicos fetch out the slug wot put paid to the gent on the
cold table. Three eight, they said, standard type cupro-nickel.’

He paused for dramatic effect.

‘What’s so special about cupro-nickel?’ said Morty. ‘I thought they were
all made of the stuff. I don’t get it.’

‘Thought you wouldn’t,’ said Mr Lugg with satisfaction. ‘And the corpse
fanciers and busies ’aven’t got the message either, from wot I can ’ear.
It was made by Seligman’s, an old-fashioned lot that went out of
business before the war. Their stuff was very classy. ’Orace spotted it
quick as a flash, on account of its ’aving a point as sharp as ’is own
nose and ’im ’aving seen one or two before. They ’ad a special name.’

‘Such as?’

‘Such as Silver Prince.’

Mr Lugg nodded his head. ‘Silver Prince, cock. A silver bullet, in fac’.
And if that means anythink except James Teague, Esquire, then I’m the
’ead mistress of a Sunday School.’


                              CHAPTER SIX
                        THE POET OF THE SALTINGS

Mr Lugg concluded his evening meal in the style which he considered
becoming to a man of his station in life. He took coffee, smoked a small
but virulent black cigar and accepted a brandy from Morty, which he
diluted with a great deal of soda. Honour being satisfied he withdrew to
the saloon leaving the young man alone, for Throstle and his friend had
not lingered.

The dining room at The Demon was an acknowledgment to the world that the
inn was also an hotel since it served as a lounge for guests between
meals. Morty made a prolonged attempt to read but he was not happy. For
the first time since his student days he was in love and he recognised
the symptoms ruefully, rather in the mood of a parent who has to face
the fact that his offspring is starting chicken pox.

Dido coloured his every thought. Her face came between him and the page
and his reactions were slowed because he could no longer concentrate.

When he reviewed the situation in an intense effort to behave
dispassionately, he found no comfort. She was elegant and he suspected
gloomily that she was probably extremely clever in her profession and
undoubtedly surrounded by admirers who spoke her own language. He stood
no chance at all. Even if she was not already committed, the competition
must be continuous and ardent. She could take her pick from a score of
brilliant rivals each with common interests and a start of five years’
acquaintance. Except for a brief moment during the alarming adventure
they had shared she had remained cool, efficient and aloof. Now that he
came to assess the situation he doubted if he had made any real progress
with her. Any man would have behaved protectively and many would have
made a better job of it. Dido accepted favours but only because they
were strewn perpetually in her path and she was too nicely nurtured to
refuse. Damn her, damn her for her style, her elegance, damn her for
sweeping him casually into her net, for reducing him to a jelly, for
threatening to hurt him irrevocably.

He closed his book with a slam and as the cruets on the table ceased to
vibrate he realised that the inn was silent for the first time that
evening. The last car, the last motor cycle, the last transistor and the
last late drinker had vanished. The lights in the bar were out and
through the open window he could hear the lap of the rising tide against
the wooden bulwark of the quay. It was a clear, moonless night but not
totally dark, for the stars carpeted the whole sky and an occasional
window still glowed to emphasise the black silhouette of the hamlet.

Mob’s Bowl had closed its doors and had become a secret place, shrouded
but still slyly awake.

Morty tiptoed through the stale silence of the bar and strolled out
towards the estuary where the air was still warm and tangy. The path
over the saltings was irregular but this was familiar ground. Ten
minutes’ cautious walking brought him to the higher area where the old
fort was still marked by stones whose original purpose was so erased
that they could have been an outcrop of rock. This was his place, his
personal domain, the lookout post from which he could consider the world
and the ache in his heart.

From somewhere beyond human sight he could hear the scrape of oars in
rowlocks and presently there came the grating of a keel on pebbles and
retreating footsteps. A light died in a cottage and a gull mewed
forlornly. Now, he thought, now I am utterly alone with my melancholy
and I can be as theatrically miserable as I please.

Dido, my sweet, unique, unattainable Dido, where are you now? Do you
even give me a second thought?

‘_To the world’s end have I come. To the world’s end._’

The voice behind him was deep and had an edge of sardonic amusement in
the overtones. Morty jerked violently, realising too late that this was
the reaction the speaker had intended.

‘Wishart!’

‘The same. I wonder if anyone reads Macleod today?’

The landlord of The Demon who had been standing directly behind him
moved to his side and offered a cigarette. His voice was so low that in
a crowd he was difficult to hear but in this silent place each separate
granulation of sound lingered like a sustained chord. The young man
could just discern the leonine sweep of grey hair above the broad
forehead and he sensed rather than saw the twinkle of mockery in the
hooded eyes.

‘William Sharp—Fiona Macleod, if you prefer his romantic side. You
won’t have read him. Out of date, out of fashion. Yet he was a poet, you
know.’

Morty was still edgy with shock. He retorted brusquely putting himself
at a disadvantage.

‘Wrong. You are quoting The Immortal Hour. And if you must know I’ve
read him on Shelley and Sainte-Beuve.’

Wishart laughed. ‘What a benison a little learning is. Do you know what
I miss most of all in this ancient isolation? The mind of man, the
single glimmer which goes beyond personal greed. It is a brutal hunger,
Mr Kelsey. You are fortunate to be free of it. But perhaps you came out
here to escape from company? This should be the quintessence of
solitude. You have the time and the place—’ he hesitated and blew smoke
into the still air, ‘—but not the loved one?’

‘Suppose you mind your own goddam business?’ Morty was irritated and off
balance. His mood had been broken and the shock of Wishart’s appearance
still tingled in his bones. His host took a step towards the remaining
corner of stone and leaned on it, hunching his shoulders and turning his
head away.

‘You mistake my motive, my dear sir. In a sense it is my business. I may
be an elderly observer but I still have the use of my ears and eyes.
Again, I am indigenous. But for the accident of education—and I can
assure you that it was an accident—I am the basic man of the estuary.’

This at least is true, Morty admitted to himself. He is a local at
heart. Even that unnaturally cultured voice has echoes of the coast.
Perhaps that is what saves him from being offensively theatrical here in
this unlikely wilderness.

As a gesture of reconciliation he fumbled through his memory of the
man’s work and found the phrase he was seeking.

‘_Let us respect the saltings and the wind._’

‘That is a subtle flattery. Few people recall anything of mine beyond a
single line written forty odd years ago. I had supposed Dixie to be the
last soul on earth interested in my withered laurels. Yet you say your
subject is history and you profess to conduct your researches here?’

‘That’s certainly true. You are leaning on all that is left of a Saxon
fort, if my guess is right. These stones were brought here before the
quarry at Nine Ash had been discovered and St Polycarp’s, which did come
from there, is early Norman. Why did you follow me?’

It was some time before Wishart replied. Finally he threw the end of a
cigarette so that it travelled for several yards like a shooting star
before it vanished into the water below the bank.

‘You do me an injustice. I could argue that it was I who led and you who
followed, but that would not be strictly true. I came here because I
wanted to talk to you and because it seemed very probable that you would
come this way. There is not much that you can do in Mob’s Bowl without
being remarked. I came to tell you of a letter bearing no signature
which I have received and have now destroyed, though some of it is
committed to memory. You could also say, perhaps, that I came to offer
you a lesson in history.’

A chill caught at Morty’s heart and he shivered involuntarily, his
resentment shifting reluctantly from his companion.

‘Not another of those infernal things?’

‘Ah, so there have been others? You don’t altogether surprise me for I
have heard a whisper of them in the wind. I think I should tell you the
burden of the writer’s plaint. It was posted, by the way, in Saltey two
days ago and was written in block capitals by an elderly person,
probably a woman. Not wholly literate but with quite a gift of
invective. A woman, almost certainly one who was born in this place.’

‘How do you know that?’

‘I am building with very trifling straws, but they make a brick or two.
I say a woman, since there was a brand of malice in the missive which I
believe to be typically female. I say elderly because the hand was not
steady as yours would be if you inscribed the same essay. And I say
local because it has a peculiar hallmark which no stranger would
recognise.’

In the darkness Morty could visualise Wishart’s secret smile, the
satisfaction of a lonely man who normally finds no audience for private
jokes.

‘All of us in Saltey who are nearing seventy betray ourselves by it. It
was the snobbery of the time, the idiosyncracy taught to us by Miss
Jessica Croft our village schoolmistress, the Greek E in handwriting. I
use it myself, and it derives from my childhood here and not from my
frail knowledge of the classics. Dame Croft went out with the tide when
this century was very young and no child has used it since. My
correspondent, ergo, is of her vintage.’

‘O.K. So you had a letter from some anonymous old harridan. What did she
say?’

‘You will not care for the contents. I may be an indifferent Boniface
but I am equipped to be your mentor in some respects. It said that I
should not accept a Jezebel as a guest, a “Whore of Babylon” was the
phrase. It stated that the delectable Dr Jones had been conducting a
liaison with the late Hector Askew, in order to inherit Miss Kytie’s
property. This suggestion was colourfully supplemented and in some
detail. The writer added that since Askew had been struck, rightly, by
the vengeance which Jehovah wreaks upon the sinners of this world, the
doctor was now casting libidinous eyes upon the body of Mortimer Kelsey
and that he too stood in danger of receiving a retributive thunderbolt
from the servants of Nemesis now resident here on earth. Not a
particularly Christian document but it struck a religious note.’

Morty snorted. ‘There’s nothing new in it. Dr Jones tells me she’s given
hers to the police. You ought to have done the same.’

‘A little beyond our local Dogberry, I fear. As for the amiable
Throstle, his hands are full elsewhere. The two happenings—the death of
Askew and these letters—have only the remotest of basic connections in
my arrogant opinion. You don’t understand us in Saltey, Mr Kelsey, and
there are long odds that you never will.’

‘I can see that a group of evil minded jealous and greedy old witches
are trying to frighten Dido out of her wits—trying to scare her off by
a pack of lies and slanders.’

‘Just so. The question is, will they succeed?’

Morty considered. The picture of Dido, angry, cool and determined, came
vividly to him.

‘I’d say no. She’s a hell of a girl. Spooks and mumbo jumbo, wisecracks
from old Rip Van Winkle in your bar and all the broken glass in creation
wouldn’t keep her out if she gave her mind to it. If you want my bet I’d
say that the bigger the opposition the more determined she’d be to fight
it.’

‘I thought you might form that impression.’ Wishart pulled a pipe from
his pocket and filled it. When it was satisfactorily alight he spoke
again.

‘You call yourself a historian, Mr Kelsey. Have you come to any
conclusion about our Demon? My impression was that you came here
originally because you were attracted by that significant piece of
mythology.’

‘It’s largely true—that and my thesis. I’ve read your book of course.
Why do you ask?’

‘Because it has a bearing on your problem. If you can read that riddle
you can touch the fringe of knowledge. Understand the Demon and you have
the clue to our psychology. My pamphlet is a bait for the tripper trade,
written at the insistence of my dear wife. Those who can read between
the lines will find some amusement at what are called “in-jokes” today.
It is an experiment in the forgery of folk lore. Yet the story has an
origin, a basis in fact. Have you no idea what it could be?’

‘According to your fairy tale,’ said Morty, giving his mind to the
subject with an effort, ‘on June 7th 1895 the village of Saltey, or
rather the Mob’s Bowl end of it, was visited by a Demon who rushed down
the road, smashed gates and windows, broke moorings, took tiles off
roofs, destroyed crops and generally had himself such a ball that the
place took years to recover. The story has been handed down from those
who saw him to their children’s children as if they were the warriors of
Bunkers Hill or Agincourt. A lot of embroidery has been added on the
way, of course—the baby found in the middle of a haystack, the two
headed calf, the plague of bats, the cloven hoof marks in the churchyard
and the remarkable cakes cooking in the bakehouse oven. I rather go for
the bats myself and I should say they were your contribution. But do I
believe any of it? No, sir.’

‘Yet something undoubtedly happened. What is your suggestion?’

Morty considered. ‘Oh, something set the tongues wagging sure enough.
Almost certainly a freak storm, purely local. It probably raised a small
whirlwind, the sort we call a Dust Devil in the States. They can cause
quite a bit of damage and certainly look kind of strange if you haven’t
seen one before. That would be my reading of it. But you’ve got nothing
to worry about. I’d hate to spoil a good story by supplying a simple
corny explanation.’

‘You’d be wrong to do so. Doubly wrong, because although there was no
whirlwind there _was_ a great deal of damage to property.’

Wishart settled his elbows more comfortably on the rock and Morty was
again aware of the man’s hunger for more sophisticated conversation than
his patrons at the inn could provide.

‘The truth about the Saltey Demon,’ he said at last, ‘is better than
fiction—funnier, if you like. It would be a pity to spoil a good legend
for the sake of a poor joke but this is a risk I am going to take. It is
for your researching mind alone, so you must respect my confidence.

‘June 7th 1895 was the day of the Royal review of the troops and militia
in the grounds of Sparrows Manor at Nine Ash. It was a sort of local
Field of the Cloth of Gold, with bands, marquees, pageantry, the flags
of all nations and of course a royal Prince and Princess. No one in the
district had talked about anything else for weeks and nearly every able
bodied man, woman and child was determined to be there.
Charabancs—horse drawn wagonettes in those days—were hired, dog carts
were polished, brakes repainted and those who couldn’t afford to ride
went on foot. By eight o’clock in the morning, with a few notable
exceptions, Mob’s Bowl and Forty Angels were as deserted as the central
Sahara.

‘It was a very hot day, the middle of a heat wave in point of fact, and
what is more important it was a Wednesday.’

‘I don’t get the significance of that.’

‘You will, my friend, you will. Wednesday was always a baking day in the
village and every housewife made her own cakes, but few had the right
ovens for the operation. The mixtures in their pans were brought by the
ladies every Wednesday morning to the baker, whose name by the way was
Septimus Kytie, a relation of the old lady up the road. His custom was
to bake the cakes during the day and have them ready for collection in
the evening, thus saving a great deal of valuable fuel. This practice
continued here until the advent of the mass produced rubbish which is
called bread today. Mr Kytie was therefore excluded from the exodus.

‘Now there was a second absentee and he was a predecessor of mine, the
landlord of what was then The Foliage, a hen-pecked and unhappy
individual called Waters. I picture an idyllic scene, the sunshine, the
deserted village, only the call of the gulls to underline this unique
peace. I am improvising a trifle here, but the deduction is inescapable.
Mr Waters called on his friend Mr Kytie to comment on the beauty of a
world without women and to give an additional quality to the occasion he
brought with him a couple of bottles of brandy, probably from a private
reserve. We sometimes have such trifles in these parts.

‘One thing led to another, most agreeably, and by mid-afternoon they
were both fast asleep. The oven and the precious cakes were forgotten.
Then the terrible moment arrived when the smell of burning aroused them.
They were faced with disaster and inevitable exposure. Fifty potential
Furies were about to descend on them and they had perhaps half an hour
to save their skins. It was a situation which could well ruin both men
for life.

‘But one of them, and I suspect that this was Septimus Kytie, had an
idea. There was a wretched child hanging about the place, a miscreant
who had been denied the treat. The old men seized on him, bribed him and
gave him very precise instructions. He was to go and hide in a ditch
between here and Forty Angels, get himself covered with mud and reappear
when the wagons returned. On his way he was to do as much damage as any
small fiend could lay his hands to. His story was to be that he had been
knocked off his feet by a Demon. Kytie had spent some time at sea and
had probably seen a whirlwind in action. His briefing was colourful and
he had a willing pupil.

‘At this point a genuine minor miracle came to their aid. The weather
broke and there was a sudden sharp storm, the sort of summer drencher
which ends a great heat, accompanied by a good deal of thunder. Kytie
and Waters added to the confusion by every piece of wanton destruction
they could imagine. Mares in season were let out of stables, dogs
unchained from yards, cattle loosed, hens driven into the street, doors
were flung open, windows broken and boats turned adrift by the quay.
There is no doubt of their success and they probably had the time of
their lives. The wagonettes returned to a scene of utter chaos.

‘In the face of this major disaster and the convincing evidence of a
demoniac visit the blackened ashes of the cakes were a minor detail,
though a very useful one from my point of view.’

Wishart paused to tap out his pipe.

‘Now mark the frailty of human nature. Within an hour of the return of
the populace it appeared that a Mrs Woodrose who was bed-ridden and
lived at the back of her cottage had also seen the Demon, and this made
her both interesting and important. Next day ten witnesses came forward
from Forty Angels who had observed him as he sped over the saltings. The
legend was established within a matter of weeks. By mid-summer you
weren’t worth talking to unless you had your own Demon story—something
you’d seen, or something strange that had happened to your house. Before
the year was out every single man, woman and child firmly believed in
their own reminiscences. Except, of course, for the original
conspirators. And two of them are dead long since.’

‘And the third?’

‘The third is old Mossy. He was the delinquent boy. You should have
guessed that.’

Morty was delighted. ‘It has the ring of truth. As an historian I’d lay
odds that half the unexplained phenomena of the ages started in pretty
much the same way—the devils of Loudun, for example. Thanks a lot for
your confidence. I promise I’ll respect it. Your legend is safe with
me.’

He straightened himself up, prepared to move. Wishart took hold of his
arm and gripped it tightly.

‘The story has a moral for you. You should be wise to consider it. If
you do not, I have wasted your time and mine and I become an idle gossip
who has betrayed a secret to no purpose.’

‘The only moral I can see,’ said Morty, shifting his elbow uneasily, ‘is
the one any historian learns very early in his career, if he is going to
make the grade. Never take anything on trust. There’s a logical
explanation for every accepted mystery and it’s up to the new man to
discover whatever has been suppressed for the sake of a good story. Is
that what you’re driving at? I learned that one in Constance, New Jersey
before my old grandma taught me how to make two holes in an egg.’

Wishart renewed his grip. ‘You mistake my meaning, but I intend to
persist. You have referred to the strange happenings at Loudun, so
vividly described by Huxley, and there is of course a common factor.
What do you suppose it to be?’

‘Mass hysteria? Undernourishment breeding superstition in an ignorant,
priest-ridden community?’

Wishart wagged his head. ‘You are missing the point. The common factor,
my friend, is mischief. The basic human delight in doing evil if the
opportunity to do so undetected occurs. That is why I have taken all
this trouble with you this evening, for I am far too vain to be an
ancient mariner by accident. If you take my advice, you will persuade
your young doctor to keep away from Saltey. Neither you nor she belong
here. I mean it, Mr Kelsey, even if I enjoy hearing educated voices.
_Mischief, mischief, mischief._ Get away, the pair of you.’

The older man was speaking intensely, his voice down to a whisper and
his head close. Morty’s reaction was violent. So far as Saltey was
concerned, Dido was his property, his to protect, his to advise. He
shook himself free of the restraining arm.

‘Don’t shoot me that sort of line, mister. I may be a sucker for tales
of Demons but I can spot a simple piece of phonus bolonus when I see it.
Plenty of people here think they’re entitled to The Hollies—hence all
these letters to frighten Dido off. They’d like to see her pack it all
in, to sell the place cheaply and vanish. Well, my guess is, they’re
going the wrong way about it. If you know or suspect who’s at the back
of it you’d better tell them so. Spread the word around. Otherwise you
are wasting your time.’

Wishart shrugged his shoulders. Against the stars his head had a massive
dignity which was undeniable. When he spoke again his voice had returned
to its normal depth. He had taken no offence at the young man’s outburst
but he was measuring his words with care.

‘As you wish, Mr Kelsey. I am only an onlooker, too old for active
adventures, even if I was attracted by the thought. But I draw your
attention to a matter which you appear to have overlooked in your fine
dramatic outburst.’

‘You do?’

‘The matter of Hector Askew. He was killed and killed by intent. This is
not a question of superstition or mass hysteria or old wives’ tales, but
of what I will call mischief. Evil, if you prefer the term. Envy,
hatred, malice and all uncharitableness as the prayer book says. It
would be a thousand pities if your delectable Dido—or you yourself come
to that—were to get yourselves hurt. Goodnight, Mr Kelsey. Perhaps you
would be kind enough to lock and bolt the door as you come in.’

He took a couple of steps and had almost faded from sight when he turned
his head.

‘By the way, if you should hear a pebble strike the weathercock on the
sail loft, don’t go down to investigate. Just lock your own door as
well.’


                             CHAPTER SEVEN
                           THE MARK OF TEAGUE

Morty awoke uneasily on the following morning. His mind struggled to
consciousness through mists of sound and scent compounded of the mew of
gulls, the grumble of men’s voices in the room beneath him, car engines
growing louder and suddenly ceasing, a burst of laughter which was not
intended kindly and the reassuring hospitable smell of scrambled eggs
and bacon.

Dixie Wishart, her blue hair escaping rakishly from the scarf which
partially enclosed it, was bustling about the room, pulling curtains,
stacking books on the one table the room contained and rattling china on
a tray. As he opened his eyes she crossed to the foot of the bed and
surveyed him, her hands on her hips. He had the impression that she was
not entirely at ease.

‘Time to rise and shine, Mr Kelsey dear,’ she said. ‘My word, but you
were late last night. No wonder you overslept. Anyone would think you
were courting.’

Morty heaved himself on to an elbow and scratched his tousled head. He
was, she thought, a proper man, too clever perhaps but if she were
twenty years younger . . .

The murmur from the room below rose and stopped abruptly as someone
banged a hand on a table.

‘What on earth’s happening? The place sounds as if it were full of
people.’

‘Plenty,’ said Dixie and clicked her tongue. ‘We’ve been taken over by
the police. That’s why I’ve brought your breakfast up here. I’ve been up
since I don’t know when and it’s nearly ten o’clock now. The boiler is
sulking, so there’s no hot water for you. And Sergeant Throstle said to
give you his compliments and he’d care to see you downstairs in the
dining room in half an hour.’

Morty blinked. ‘Throstle? What in heck does he want?’

‘I really couldn’t say.’ Dixie conveyed that she disapproved, was deeply
suspicious of all policemen and hoped that she was not going to be asked
to believe the worst. ‘There was some trouble last night. Not here, I’m
told, but out beyond Forty Angels. Now they—the police—are all over
the place like blowflies and they’re using my clean dining room to talk
to half the lie-abouts in Christendom—all the caravan and tent lot out
by the church. It’s bad enough having customers in the bar when you
can’t tell whether they’re boys or girls or raving queers. And they
don’t spend the money, you know, not that type. Not to say really spend.
Shandy for the men and the girls on little drops of vodka and Baby
Burpjoys and I don’t know what next in the way of gut-rot. Half of them
don’t wash properly and none of them seem to do a hand’s turn of work.
They’re getting the place a bad name . . .’

She had run out of breath and turned to pour out a cup of tea.

‘Now you drink this up, Mr Kelsey dear. And get yourself dressed. I’ll
tell the Sergeant you’re awake. I hope you’ve got an excuse for yourself
last night even if it’s a rude one. He’s looking for trouble, that man
is. I’ve never seen him in such a state. A London detective and not even
shaved. You’ll learn all about it from him, never you worry.’

With a rustle of plastic apron and a final rattle of crockery she
departed. From below the voices continued, indistinguishable but
punctuated by an occasional phrase spoken in anger.

Morty lathered his chin guiltily from the relics of the tea hot water
jug, breakfasted while dressing and within a quarter of an hour
descended to the saloon bar which led to the dining room. Beside the far
door on a bench sat P.C. Simmonds, his arms folded, his helmet on the
table in front of him and an open notebook beside it. The three other
occupants of the room lounged in varying attitudes of nonchalance on the
window seat. They were dressed in the ritual uniform of their kind which
consisted of tight blue faded jeans, decorative boots and leather coats.
Each affected hair of the same length and each wore dark glasses which
gave the group a calculated anonymity with an underlying note of menace.
They were sitting against the light and it was some moments before Morty
realised that the slighter figure in the centre who sprawled with hands
in pockets and legs stretched was a girl. As she turned her head to
survey him he saw that she had an ugly graze on her cheekbone but the
masking sun spectacles concealed her thoughts as efficiently as a visor.
The mark was identification enough: this was the motor cyclist who had
run into the broken glass on the road to Saltey.

P.C. Simmonds nodded formally. ‘Morning, sir. It’s Mr Kelsey, isn’t it?
I’ll just take a few particulars and then I’ll see if the Sergeant can
see you.’

‘That’s a bloody nerve,’ said one of the youths. ‘What about us? Keep us
waiting an hour but a lousy git like him can get served like a dose of
salts. I’m packing it in.’

The constable ignored the interruption and began to write.

‘You’re Mr Mortimer Kelsey, an alien but living here on holiday at The
Demon which is your registered address. That’s right, isn’t it?’

‘Sure. You should know that by now. And could you put down Citizen of
the United States of America? It sounds better than alien. I’m sorry if
I’m jumping the queue, officer. I’ll wait my turn. What’s it all about,
anyway?’

Simmonds eyed him without raising his head. ‘Mr Throstle will tell you.’
He resumed his script, mouthing the words as he wrote. ‘Aged 26. U.S.
subject. Tourist.’

The inner door opened and a youth shambled out. Apart from being taller
than the waiting group there was little to distinguish him beyond a deep
flush on his cheeks which did not match the nonchalance of his
expression.

‘Next please,’ said the newcomer, revealing a mincing London accent and
a reedy tenor voice. ‘And oh, nursie, my teeth still hurt me something
chronic. Could I have a drink to take the taste away?’

Morty hesitated but a jerk from Simmonds’ head propelled him into the
room.

Sergeant Throstle, his hair ruffled and his chin showing the truth of
Dixie’s observation, was seated behind the largest of the three tables.
Round the corner to his right was the sad grey man with whom he had been
dining on the previous evening. He too was unshaven and his face from
nose to ear bore a livid mark. One eye was half closed by a swelling
that promised a sizeable bruise within the day. The grey suit was no
longer respectable, for a sleeve gaped from its shoulder revealing
canvas and torn stitching. He looked ill and weary.

‘Sit down, Mr Kelsey, if you please.’ Throstle’s tone was businesslike
and his eyes had lost their amiable twinkle.

‘Now before we go any further at all, I’m going to ask you one question
and I want a complete answer and no argy-bargy. Understood? Just what
did you do last night between when we last met here—or say, closing
time, which is ten thirty in these parts—and three thirty this morning,
when I understand from Mrs Wishart you returned?’

Morty considered.

‘I walked out to the old fort,’ he said, ‘at about eleven, I suppose.
There I met our landlord, the distinguished poet Hubert Oliver Wishart,
and we had a long chat about the Demon—the story of it, I mean. Then we
came home, or I guess he did. I smoked for a bit, but it was getting
kind of nippy, so I went for a walk. That’s about all.’

‘A longish walk, Mr Kelsey. Where did you go?’

‘Right along the sea wall. To Firestone and back by the road, if you
must know. It’s the longest possible way round, but I wasn’t hurrying.
Now just what’s this all about?’

Throstle ignored the question. ‘Meet anyone?’

‘Not a soul. I wanted to be alone, as they say, and I certainly was.
Even the gulls had packed up.’

His examiner surveyed him levelly for some time and finally grunted.

‘Humph. A thin sort of tale. If it’s the best you can do I’ll have to
accept it if only because a child caught stealing apples could have done
better.’

He relaxed and appeared to shrink a little in the process. ‘Well now, if
you haven’t heard the story already I’d best tell you before you get the
local version. Last night, or rather early this morning, this officer
here, who is Detective Constable Sibling of the C.I.D., was on
observation duty, at the corner by the Saltey and main road turning to
be precise—it’s called Ponder’s End Farm. You walked right past it. He
was attacked rather brutally from behind, we believe by more than one
person. Somebody slipped a sack or a bag over his head in fact and he
was pretty nastily manhandled. Finally he was tied up like a chicken
with sticking plaster, which is worse than rope if you want to get out
of it, and left like a parcel in the farmyard. Now we don’t like that
sort of thing, Mr Kelsey, and we mean to nail the customers concerned,
good and hearty. You were out the best part of the night, you came
within a few yards of where Sibling lay, yet you saw and heard nothing.
Not even a motorbike, for example?’

Morty shook his head. ‘Sorry, not a thing. Oh, a rowboat came ashore by
the Bowl, but that was before I met Wishart. Apart from that nothing but
a couple of barn owls and the clock on Firestone church.’

‘Well, if you can’t, you can’t.’ His inquisitor was morose. ‘We know
about the midnight oarsman.’ He turned to his companion. ‘I suppose you
don’t recognise this chap, Sibling?’

The bedraggled man shook his head: it was his only contribution to the
meeting.

Suddenly Throstle changed his tactics and thrust a photograph across the
table. The gesture had the element of surprise about it and was made
with professional skill.

‘Ever seen this joker before?’

The print was a typical criminal record portrait, which is to say that
it was unimaginatively lit and showed the full face of a man in a bad
temper. It was some time before Morty recognised the subject.

‘No,’ he said at last, ‘no, I’ve never seen him in the flesh but his
face is kind of familiar—I mean I think I’ve seen a shot of him before.
His name wouldn’t be Teague by any chance? It’s a lousy photograph to
recognise a man by.’

Throstle snorted. ‘You’re damn right on both counts. A lousy photograph
but it is the best the C.R.O. can do, which is to say it is as useless
as a passport. Out of date, into the bargain. As you say, that’s James
Teague. How come you know his name?’

Morty explained. ‘I don’t know much about him, of course but it looks
like a lot of guys are interested to know if he shows up.’

‘You can say that again.’ Throstle breathed heavily through his nose and
retrieved the print, replacing it in a folio. He thumbed through the
papers it contained, half extracted a second photograph and changed his
mind.

‘You know, Mr Kelsey, you’re a little bit of a puzzle to me and I don’t
like little problems when I’ve got bigger ones on my plate. You’re quite
sure about all you’ve said? Anything you’d like to add?’

‘Nothing,’ said Morty firmly. ‘Has there been any sign of Mr Teague?
Last night’s fun and games for example?’

‘It could be. That’s what we’re here to find out. It’s a nasty business
all round, so I’ll tell you just a trifle more to put you in the
picture. Sibling was attacked by two people and he thinks they were both
men. They caught him from behind and they could have been locals who
don’t take kindly to strangers, as you may have noticed. It’s possible
that they didn’t know he was a policeman, for he wasn’t in uniform and
you could say he was trespassing, in a sense. At any rate, he was behind
a wall and keeping an eye on the road junction. They were damn lucky not
to kill him for they covered his face with tape and he’s a man who
mostly breathes through his mouth. After he was hobbled anyone could
have come in or out of Saltey for several hours without being
identified. In fact several people did apart from yourself—two motor
cyclists and a car passed the corner coming this way. Sibling heard them
as he lay in the stable yard. He heard you too incidentally. You still
can’t help us?’

Morty shook his head. ‘Sorry. I didn’t even see headlights from where I
was.’ A thought occurred to him and he continued: ‘Old Wishart said
something last night about being careful if I heard a stone striking the
weathercock on the sail lofts. Does that mean anything to you?’

Throstle eyed him sharply. ‘It certainly does. The weathercock isn’t the
easiest thing to hit with a pebble as you may know if you’ve ever played
cricket—or in your case I suppose baseball. But there is a man who came
from these parts who could do it. His name is Burrows, Thomas Alfred
Burrows, appropriately called “Target”, though for a different reason
they tell me. A tall tough man with a glass eye or black patch as the
fancy takes him. A sailor man with an ugly reputation—no convictions,
but a great deal known to his disadvantage. Two evenings ago _his_
visiting card turned up.’

‘He hit the target?’

‘Somebody did. The bird on the roof is made of copper and makes quite a
noise if it gets coshed. Rather like a gong, they say. It used to be
Master Burrows’ way of announcing his arrival when he came ashore in the
days when he lived here. He was a very good shot with a stone and proud
of it. He hasn’t been in these parts for twenty odd years but that noise
scared the pants off one or two of the ancients, including Wishart and
old Mossy, when they heard it again. Here—you may as well take a dekko
at this.’

He pulled a second photograph from the folder and skimmed it across the
table. The print had evidently been enlarged from part of a group and
showed a face dominated by frowning beetle brows under a peaked sailor’s
cap. The sinister effect was diminished by the lack of focus in the eyes
which looked outwards in the reverse of a squint. The impression was of
a sly mongrel of uncertain temper, an animal not to be trusted. Morty
returned it after careful examination: it was not a face to be
forgotten.

‘Sorry. No dice at all. But I’d know him again.’

‘I hope so. Now listen to me, Mr Kelsey, and get the message loud and
clear. There’s good reason to think that either or both of these
men—and they’re what we call villains in our old-fashioned way—are
somewhere in these parts. One of ’em has killed a man already and for
all we know both of them may be booked for it again. If you see or hear
or smell the slightest sign that makes you think they’re in the
neighbourhood get in touch with the police—_at the double_. Understand?
No mock heroics, no amateur private eye stuff, no bloody minded
curiosity. And that goes for your Dr Jones too—perhaps more so.
Whatever they’re up to those two are not playing for peanuts. If you
want to get yourself and your girl friend killed or maimed for life, let
me tell you that the way to set about is to stick your little noses in
where they’re not wanted. This place is a mass of dykes and ditches,
holes and corners, and at this time of year it would take an army to
ferret a man out, especially if he’s got friends. I haven’t got an
army—I’ve far too few overworked and underpaid policeman who’ve better
things to do than to protect any silly beggar who’s trying to play last
across.’

Throstle had been leaning over the table, emphasising his points with
the flat of his hand. He was angry and irritated at his own display of
nerves. He pushed his chair back finally and eyed the young man
appraisingly.

‘Don’t think I don’t realise that you feel you’ve got a stake in this
business, somewhere or other. These poison pen letters come pretty close
to you. By the way, I know there’s been another one. Wishart admitted
that to me this morning. But just consider the facts. Teague couldn’t
conceivably have started this business because he was otherwise engaged
at the time they first appeared. As for the man Burrows, by all accounts
he is as near as a touch illiterate. One or other of them may—and it’s
a very long shot—have been connected with Hector Askew’s death, but
there’s no direct evidence as yet. But there are little bits of this and
that to suggest that they may be in the neighbourhood and if this is the
case then God help you if you try any funny business.’

He paused and smiled wearily, more to himself than to the young man.

‘I wouldn’t lay it on so thick,’ he explained, ‘if it weren’t for your
friend Campion. I’ve learned quite a bit about him and he’s by no means
the bland friendly outsider he sets himself out to be. If he’s playing
some sort of lone hand in a matter that may or may not be his business,
well that’s his own funeral, and it could well be just that. He’s no
call to involve you or any other stranger. Take my advice, son. Get out
and stay out.’

There was silence for several moments, long enough for the clock on the
wall to become audible.

‘I get the message,’ said Mortimer Kelsey.

‘Fine. Now run along, sir, if you don’t mind. Perhaps you’ll ask the
next young tearaway to come in. The girl will do. Her name’s Doll Jensen
and you can tell her by the scratch on her face. Oh, and before you go,
just one thing.’

‘Yes?’

‘Superintendent Gravesend will be back this afternoon, so cut out the
midnight walks. They make rotten reading if he should want a statement
in writing at any time.’


                             CHAPTER EIGHT
                             THE STRING MAN

At the side of The Demon almost at the foot of the flagstaff stood a red
public telephone box and towards this Morty strode, deliberately
ignoring the comments of those who were still waiting to be questioned.
The location was in fact a good deal more private than that of the
instrument at the inn, which lived on a shelf behind the long bar of the
saloon. Any conversation here was apt to be punctuated by imaginative
advice during business hours.

He made three attempts to convey news of the night’s developments and
they were all luckless. Dr Jones was not at her Bloomsbury flat and
could not be reached at St Botolph’s Hospital where she was
incommunicado in the wards. Mr Campion’s bell produced no response to a
persistent appeal.

Frustrated and not a little angry with himself and the world in general,
he kicked at the pebbles beneath his feet and finally selected one which
suited his purpose. The weathercock on the lantern above the sail lofts
gleamed whitely in the morning sunlight, an inviting target once the
idea had been planted. Morty possessed a good eye and had been a
distinguished pitcher at Vere University, but the stone sailed high and
wide to disappear beyond the red corrugated iron roof. A flurry of
seagulls announced that it had reached the mud beyond.

Presently his attention was caught by the buzzing rattle of a motor
scooter which was clearly far too light to rank with the urgent
mechanical giants favoured by the London visitors. It emerged round the
corner at a respectable speed, however, and the rider halted the machine
with a crunch of gravel within a few feet of where he stood. She was a
tall thin woman of uncertain age, but well beyond fifty, who wore a
yellow sou’wester tied beneath her chin. A leather jerkin which had
started its career as army equipment and a tweed skirt completed the
outfit. Its owner dismounted as if she were more used to a horse than a
scooter and surveyed him with sharp intelligent eyes set above a nose
which would have looked normal on an eagle. She kicked the support idly
into position propping the machine upright, patted the saddle and took a
couple of steps towards him.

‘Morning to you,’ she said. ‘Oh, this is first rate. A left and a right
straight off. You’re the one man I’ve been looking for. Never had a
chance to nobble you alone.’

‘Good morning,’ said Morty.

She released her oilskin headgear from its moorings and shook out a mop
of untidy white hair.

‘You’re Mortimer Kelsey, aren’t you? I’ve seen you around. You found
that young good-for-nothing’s body last week. I didn’t get much of a
look in at that show, more’s the pity. But I hear the game’s still afoot
and that’s all to the good. I’m Monica Weatherby, by the way. I’m the
string man in these parts.’

Despite himself Morty was attracted. The woman in front of him, he
perceived, had never lost the awkward gaucherie of a schoolgirl and had
long since substituted a friendly heartiness for the feminine charm
which eluded her. The voice had the unmistakable note of authority which
long country breeding brings to women of gentle birth.

‘Silly of me,’ she continued, twisting her yellow headgear by its
strings. ‘Ought to explain if you don’t know the term. I’m a journalist,
don’t you know. Write for the _Gazette_ at Nine Ash and keep a watching
brief for the _Globe_ in town. It’s called stringing. Quite well paid if
you can find a good story. No by-lines of course, but then crime
reporting’s not really my cuppa tea. Country life, nature in the raw,
ancient local history, these are my subjects. You shoot a bit yourself
over those coverts they tell me. Brought along something to show you, in
fact, in case I ran you to earth. But it can wait. First things first.
I’ll just file my copy and we’ll have a nice natter. Did you see
anything of last night’s little rumpus?’

‘Nary a thing, lady,’ said Morty. ‘I’ve just been grilled by experts but
I’ve stuck to my story and they’re making no charges.’

‘Humph! That’s a fat lot of help. Can’t you do better than that? I got
most of the gen up at Forty Angels.’

Morty considered. His new acquaintance was disarming and he found
himself anxious to help.

‘As far as I know a plain clothes policeman called Sibling was beaten up
last night by a couple of men who probably mistook him for somebody
else—a trespasser, perhaps. I doubt if it will make headlines.’

‘Maybe not, but that’s the editor’s pidgin and he can work it out as he
pleases. Saltey is bursting with policemen and they’re all as mum as
oysters, so _they_ think there’s something in the wind. Now just hang on
half a jiffy whilst I get this on the wire. Thanks for the name, by the
way. Hope it’s spelt in the proper way.’

She turned and scuttled into the box, her large sensible shoes making
the pebbles leap from her path.

Her methods with the telephone had the same touch of forthright
amateurishness which characterised her treatment of transport. She made
two short calls and preceded each with a sharp blow to the side of the
instrument which appeared to produce instant results. She emerged wiping
her hands on a large bandana handkerchief.

‘Filthy places. Not enough grooming done to keep them tickety-boo.
Still, this one works which is more than can be said of the one up the
road. Now, Mr Kelsey—you are Mortimer Kelsey, I suppose?—I think we
ought to have a chin-wag. Too early for a snifter but do you suppose
your landlady could rustle up a coffee?’

Morty supposed that she could and suggested the four ale bar known as
The Snug, a small highly varnished nook which was completely private and
away from the main saloon. Before she joined him his guest strode back
to her charger, opened a container beside the saddle and produced a
battered black briefcase, which she tucked under her arm.

‘In here, I think, Miss Weatherby.’

‘Oh, it’s _Mrs_ Weatherby. But not to worry. I’m still Monica Sparrow to
most people, even if poor old Hugo’s been dead these thirty years.
Sparrow, you know, of Sparrow’s Manor, or used to be. This area is still
Sparrow’s Hundred though I don’t own an acre of it.’

‘My respects, ma’am,’ said Morty. ‘Twenty square miles to the Hundred
down here and twenty-seven in Yorkshire where they call it a Wapentake.
I’ve done my homework, you see, even if it’s not my period.’

‘Good man.’ Mrs Weatherby slammed her case on to the scrubbed table and
planted herself firmly on the bench behind it. ‘I know it’s not. I’ve
done some research on you myself, which is not difficult for a nosey old
woman like me. I always tell ’em “I only ask because I want to know” and
that’s how I earn my living. And by the way—no jokes about sparrows. I
know them all and I know my face is like a dilapidated barn owl. My
friends call me Mon and the rest of ’em, behind my back, refer to me as
the Sparrowhawk. Very little goes on between here and Nine Ash that I
don’t know about, and what I don’t know I can piece together better than
a dozen policemen.’

‘I can believe that.’ Morty warmed to her. That’s fine and dandy because
a little solid information is just what I’m looking for. You know about
Dr Jones and her correspondents, for example?’

‘Ha! Your young woman. A fine gal by the look of her. Hook her up whilst
the going is good and don’t waste your time doing the odd spot of knight
errantry just to prove that you’re worth your salt. Take her away, raise
a family and let that derelict property down the road go to perdition
which is where it belongs.’

Morty blushed. The thought that his feelings were so patent to any
outside observer shook him and he reacted defensively.

‘I . . . I hardly know her, to tell you the truth. But she is the victim
of a conspiracy and I’m darn well going to get to the bottom of it.’ He
outlined the history of the letters.

‘Conspiracy, eh?’ Mrs Weatherby sipped her coffee meditatively and it
seemed to Morty that she was sifting through a forest of family trees,
sorting evidence from hearsay and diagnosing by innate instinct.

‘Conspiracy,’ she repeated. ‘Well, I suppose it could be. I haven’t seen
any of them—the letters, I mean—myself, more’s the pity, or I might
have put paid to it months ago. You think several different hands are at
work? Are they written with a pen, typed or put together out of bits of
newspaper?’

Morty explained as best he could. When he came to think of it, his
knowledge was very incomplete, but he made a good witness and he recited
all that the landlord of The Demon had told him of the latest arrival.
Mrs Weatherby listened in silence but she checked the points on the long
bony fingers of one hand, tapping each digit sharply down on the table
as she did so.

‘Four different groups, eh? You could call the first of them Catty and
Arch—that would be a woman of course, possibly one of old Mossy Ling’s
cousins and there are three of those, all as like as turkey cocks. Next,
Smug. I’d say that means Jonah Woodrose, for a ducat. Then you say
Informed but with Malice and Professional Know-how? There is only one
man hereabouts in that category who fits the bill and he’s Alan
Sullivan, a retired insurance agent who does tax work and knows
everybody’s business. An acid little runt with duck’s disease. Finally,
Wicked Religious—a pretty wide field, what? An elderly female on the
Kytie side of the fence without a doubt. Choice of three there. Ethel
Wishart, a distant cousin of H.O.’s, old Mrs Waters who’s practically
ga-ga and Bob Felgate’s wife Norah, a toothy vixen and a pillar of
Nonconformity with a mind like a cesspool. Not a nice collection and
just about what I’d guessed all along. Pick ’em by the heels, shake ’em
all out, see what drops on to the ground and you’ll have the answer.’

‘Isn’t that a job for the police?’

‘Fiddle faddle!’ Mrs Weatherby was contemptuous. ‘They’ll never get near
it in a month of Sundays. Only thing to do is to frighten the ringleader
if you can locate him or her. I’ll have a word with Jonah and see if I
can put a pinch of ginger under his tail. He knows more than is good for
him and always did. He’s not a Woodrose for nothing. You can say I’m an
interfering old witch if you like but this place has a bad enough name
already without adding poison pens.’ She chuckled reminiscently. ‘Yes,
it would be quite a kick to stop Jonah’s earth for once. The Woodroses,
don’t you know, still talk about “their people”, meaning anyone who once
worked for them or their descendants. They are not feudal—they’re
tribal. The Kyties were just the same in their time—playing Montagues
and Capulets over less than half a dozen farms and a little bit of
coastal business. That’s why both factions were so angry when old Kitty
Kytie left her house to a stranger.’

‘Angry enough to kill Hector Askew, simply because he drew up the will?’

‘Bless my soul, no. Use your loaf, boy. Think. _Think._ The thing is
done. Kitty is dead and buried, your beautiful filly has inherited.
Nothing to be gained by bumping off young Askew. No, not on your Uncle
Sam. That young blackguard was killed for his sins, and he committed ’em
mostly in London or abroad, I’m told. Jealous husband, girl in the
family way, that’s the shape of things and you can bet your boots on it.
Even the man Gravesend spotted that, which explains why he went
scuttling back to town leaving it to a C.I.D. sergeant and the local lot
to ferret out the answer. He likes quick results, does Mr Gravesend, and
this is a waiting game.’

‘The guy is coming back this afternoon according to Throstle,’ said
Morty. ‘I forgot to tell you that.’

‘Is he now? That rather looks like business.’ Mrs Weatherby switched
rapidly from the last lady of the Sparrows to string man for the
_Globe_. She made some mental calculations with the aid of an outsize
wrist watch. ‘I’d better get that on the blower right away.’ She stood
up and pulled a handful of change from a pocket. ‘It’s just on opening
time. Here, take my case and if the coast’s clear in the dining room,
we’ll finish the natter there. Get me a Harry pinkers—a large one.’

She strode out of the room, her head forward and her shoulders swaying
as she moved. Morty had the impression that she was carrying an
invisible hockey stick. He gathered the briefcase and did as he had been
bidden. Throstle and his aides had departed but it was still too early
at the inn for normal business.

On her return the string man seemed pleased with herself. ‘Small scoop
there, I think. Now let’s get down to brass tacks.’

She pulled up a chair, opened her briefcase, drew out a dog-eared
photograph which had been folded unkindly in half and spread it out on
the table, scooping side plates and cutlery out of her way to clear a
space.

‘You won’t have seen this, even if you’ve been to the Record Office,’
she said, ‘because the original doesn’t exist any longer. Belonged to
our lot and was destroyed in the fire, forty years back. This is all
that’s left of a survey map of the Saltey area made in 1758 for Sir
Thomas Sparrow. It’s a Timothy Skynner and must have been quite a peach
in its day, what? Take a good dekko at it and I’ll show you what I’m
getting at. Ten inches to the mile. I remember it as a girl hanging in
the old man’s library. About two foot by three when it was alive.’

Even in its tattered state the print was a delight to any researching
mind. It revealed an extremely accurate piece of cartography, made
decorative by an ornamental compass and a baroquely framed title. The
lower left hand corner had been squared off to list ‘The Parcels’, the
farms and the holdings of the time, given in acres, roods and perches,
together with the tenants. Very little had changed it seemed in the
course of two hundred and more years, except for the coastline where
erosion had redrawn the outlines and a new sea wall had smoothed away
the more erratic indentations. To Morty the discovery was a treasure and
he pored over it for several minutes in silence.

‘This is just great,’ he said at last. ‘Quite new on me. I’ll make a
copy print, if you’ll allow me. It fits into my thesis like a glove. May
I borrow it for a couple of days?’

‘Help yourself,’ said Mrs Weatherby heartily, ‘but don’t miss the real
point of the whole caboodle.’ She pointed a bony finger to emphasise her
words. ‘All this coastal area is Woodrose country and always has been,
since the dawn of time. Every foot of access to the water in both
directions. The Kyties—they were there already you see—owned or rented
anything that could be really farmed. Very few of them took to the sea.
Jonah Woodrose’s grandfather started moving inland in the 90s of the
last century, but he kept as much of the saltings as he could. One or
two names have changed and families have died out, but the principle’s
much the same today. Now a modern Ordnance Survey map shows only one way
out of Saltey except by water. Correct? Well, look at this, young man,
and you’ll see that there are half a dozen, or used to be. Wide ditches,
little private tracks, footpaths through coppices—most of them have
gone, but two or three are left. The police, God bless ’em, think that
by watching one corner they can keep tabs on who goes in and out of this
place and they always did, or pretended to. They couldn’t be more wrong.
The area isn’t a box, it’s a sieve. Get what I’m driving at?’

‘Smuggling, I’d say.’

‘You’re bang on. Everything came through the Bowl and went on to London
by the back lanes. Even up to the war you could bet your sweet life that
half the families in this place dabbled in it, whatever else they worked
at officially. And who do you suppose were the leading lights in the
enterprise?’

‘I could guess.’

Mrs Weatherby snorted. ‘I daresay you could. But I _know_, because I
enjoy poking my nose into things. The answer is all your girl friend’s
correspondents, or their menfolk. Most of them are past it now, but
their ringleader still seems to be interested in keeping Saltey to
itself. Damitall, I’ll beat the truth out of Jonah if I swing for it.’

Morty took a gulp of his second gin: his companion had presented him
with a mixture too strong for his taste and he grimaced involuntarily.

‘You know,’ he said at last, ‘there’s one thing I don’t understand.
You’re a kind of a local character and in a way I’d say you’re being
disloyal to your own people. Yet you’re taking my side and I couldn’t be
more of a stranger. Hell, I’m grateful to you and your help is just the
greatest but unless you’re scouting around for a Sunday tabloid
story—and I want no part of that, lady—I don’t get your angle.’

Mrs Weatherby rose to her feet, looked towards and beyond the bar to
make certain they were alone and returned to the table before she
answered. Her voice was lowered.

‘Smuggling,’ she said, ‘has a fine romantic ring about it—once aboard
the lugger, yo heave ho and all that kind of malarky. I’ve had a bottle
or two myself I wouldn’t care to explain about and my father’s taste in
brandy and cigars was always ahead of his income. No particular harm in
that, so far as I can see. In the old days the gentry were inclined to
regard it as a sport and we minded our own business if the others went
in for it more professionally. That’s why strangers aren’t encouraged
here, a fact you’ve already had your nose rubbed in. Bless my soul, boy,
I’d no more think of running a story about that than I would of pinching
the Crown Jewels. That’s why I dislike those letters of yours, because
they puzzle me and I hate mysteries.’

‘How so? I thought you’d just solved the whole problem, bar the
shouting?’

His companion held her head on one side like a cogitating terrier.

‘Because they don’t fit into the pattern,’ she said at last. ‘Different
as chalk from cheese. The more I think about it the less I like it. I
haven’t the slightest doubt that these naughty old things have had a
hand in it, but just why, I ask myself. Their day has been over for
twenty years. They’re all as old as God, apart from Jonah Woodrose and
he doesn’t fit the bill as a modern smuggler. He’s an uncouth brute but
he’s doing very nicely thank you and he was never one to risk his neck.
So somebody must be behind it all. Someone is still interested in
keeping Saltey to itself.’

She took a sip of gin, breathed heavily through her nose and continued
speaking, more to herself than to Morty.

‘Apart from the fun of paying a quid or two less for your liquor there
was never much to be gained from the old-fashioned game—not in terms of
big money, anyhow. But today it’s a dirty business—nothing sporting
about it. Different people, different goods and bigger profits. Watches
are worth while, of course, but as far as I know they mostly come by
air, in big consignments. In this part of the world I’m afraid it’s
dope, which is quite a new department for us. _And that I simply will
not have._’

She rapped the table sharply and Morty was vividly reminded of his first
schoolmistress.

‘I won’t have it,’ she repeated. ‘Morphia, heroin, the reefer cigarette
things—what d’you call it, marijuana—and so on, they’re all works of
the devil. I’ve seen the effect on kids even in Nine Ash Hospital and
they’re quite terrifying. It’s got to be stopped.’

Morty applauded. ‘Quite right, ma’am. Just what do you propose doing
about it?’

‘Do?’ Mrs Weather by switched two penetrating eyes on her companion.
‘Do? Get to the bottom of it, of course. Blow the whole thing sky high.
Sink ’em without trace.’

She emptied her glass.

‘Now what have we got to go on? First Jonah Woodrose and his gaggle of
old women. Unlikely material, I grant you, but the roots of sin are
there as Kipling said. Jonah’s no master mind, so there must be somebody
with brains in the background who’s making use of him. Probably not a
local, but then Jonah spends quite a bit of time in London. Jonah
wouldn’t risk running drugs. Jonah is rich. Jonah is a coward. And Jonah
is mischievous, like all the Woodroses. I’ll start with him. And you—’
she tapped sharply on the table again, ‘you will take the other end.’

He turned to her in surprise. There was something in her autocratic but
slap-happy approach which was both endearing and convincing. If she was
determined to be a one woman avenging army it would be as well to become
an ally.

‘Me, lady? Just what do you think I can do?’

‘Keep an eye on the children—the tearaways, of course. Mods or rockers
or whatever they call themselves. How do you suppose this racket is
conducted? Who else goes roaring over the countryside day in and day
out? Apply your mind, my dear man. As far as most people are concerned
they’re all as alike as peas in a pod—tight trousers, long hair and
dirty fingernails—and I don’t suppose there are more than two or three
of them who are real little crooks. Pump your friend Throstle and see if
you dig up what he knows about them. If he is as obstinate as a
mule—and he can be—find out which of them he really grilled this
morning. They’d be the ones with something known against them, as the
policemen say. Find who owns the expensive machines and what they do for
a living, if anything. Chat ’em up. Make friends.’

Morty squared his shoulders.

‘A large order. They’re just as clannish as the rest of the population.’

‘Nonsense.’ Mrs Weatherby was emphatic. ‘You’re thirty years nearer
their age group than I am. Learn the language, study the customs of the
people. History is your subject, what? Well, here’s social history of a
very uncivilised kind right under your nose. And if you can find
anything out just give me a tinkle. Remember, I only ask because I want
to know.’


                              CHAPTER NINE
                             SOCIAL EVENING

By that especial mixture of perspicacity and effort which is an almost
infallible formula for success, Dixie Wishart had built up the
reputation of The Demon beyond the confines of Saltey as being worth a
visit on Saturday nights. Judicious selection, coupled with flattery and
liberality in the matter of drink had produced an excellent team of dart
players and she paid handsomely for visiting musicians. The youth who
performed on the electric guitar was not only accomplished but
personable and the pianist had the true and unmistakable honky-tonk
touch, particularly when the majority of the instrument’s outer shell
had been removed.

The mysterious working of Providence, which often decrees that the
occasion produces the man, had also conjured a self-appointed master of
ceremonies to complete the circle. Mr H. Hamilton Dashwood was small and
dapper from his unnaturally black hair and his boot button eyes to his
highly polished shoes. He had suddenly appeared two years before, when
the ‘Social Evening’ was in embryo, taking charge of the proceedings at
a moment when apathy was fighting with insularity for the upper hand and
had turned impending disaster into triumph.

Dixie, who enjoyed decorative embroidery whether it was plastic or
romantic, had decided that he was a widower working in a gentlemanly way
as a commercial traveller, a lonely soul who lived for the golden
moments when he could command the attention and the ephemeral affection
of a crowd. Each Saturday at eight he arrived in a small car, sometimes
armed with a cardboard suitcase containing a quantity of false noses or
paper hats. To his hostess he was a godsend and even if he never had
occasion to buy a drink there were always plenty of others to perform
this office for him, so that his glass of practically neat whisky became
a miraculous cruse throughout the evening.

Morty, who had dined in solitary by no means austere gloom at Nine Ash,
returned to find the saloon of The Demon crowded with seekers after
pleasure and the air thick with smoke and noise. His arrival went
unmarked, for the ‘Social’ attracted customers from a distance and apart
from Mossy Ling in his allotted corner he recognised only a handful of
regulars. Of Mr Lugg there was no sign.

Mindful of Mrs Weatherby’s final instruction he had dressed with some
care in a pair of slimly cut canvas trousers, a dark blue shirt and a
silk scarf of such virulent puce that it glowed as if radioactive. This
was the limit his wardrobe permitted but the effect, he considered, was
not displeasing.

Mr H. Hamilton Dashwood was displaying a new discovery as he arrived. He
spoke in the hearty avuncular style of the old time music hall chairman.
‘Direct from the patronage of King George the Fourth, the Duke of York,
the Marquis of Granby and the Blue Boar itself, for the first time at
The Demon . . . I give you a master at the art of spooning—no, not your
sort, madame—the manipulation of two spoons as a musical instrument
. . . A very big hand for the largest dwarf in captivity, Mr Clarence
Dodgson.’

There was general applause at the announcement and Mr Dodgson, who was
mild, bald and meagre on first inspection, burst into a rattle of metal
with a pair of spoons which he vibrated dexterously over every available
section of his person including his head. The pianist picked up his cue
and soon the majority of the company were united in song.

‘_Knees up, knees up, don’t get the breeze up_ . . .’

Morty worked his way with some difficulty to the bar and finally
attracted Dixie’s attention. She was hot and dishevelled and her blue
hair had lost some of its artificial resilience.

‘You want to watch your step tonight, Mr Kelsey dear,’ she whispered. ‘I
think we may be in for a bit of trouble. I’d send for that Simmonds if I
hadn’t had enough of him already.’

As she spoke she jerked her head towards a corner of the room where the
dart board hung, flanked by a pair of scoreboards made almost illegible
from constant use. Five youths surrounded it, flinging darts casually at
the target, making no attempt to play but giggling amongst themselves
when one of the feathered needles went dangerously wide of its mark.
Four of them still affected dark glasses and the group were
ostentatiously aloof from the general entertainment. Calculated trouble
brooded over their truculent isolation.

The reason for their choice of a strategic position became clear when
the artist with the spoons ended his performance and Mr Dashwood stepped
forward to take the floor.

‘And now, ladies and gentlemen, for the principal item of the evening. I
refer, of course, to the semi-final round of the Saltey and District
Darts Contest for the Challenge Shield so kindly presented by our
gracious hostess, Mrs Dixie Wishart. A big hand, please, for a beautiful
lady—I can say that on this occasion since her husband appears to be
off duty. Tonight’s event is between the challengers from the Blue Boar
at Firestone and our own, our very own team at The Demon.’

The applause which greeted the announcement was courageous rather than
wholehearted. The eight genuine players began to shuffle forward but the
group by the board stood its ground. A silence born of embarrassment and
apprehension swept over the room and for a moment or two nobody moved.

It was broken by the thwack of a dart as it struck the edge of the
wooden mantelpiece very close to the head of one of the official team.
The group by the board tittered and the self-appointed Master of
Ceremonies tripped delicately towards them.

‘Now I’m sure you gentlemen don’t want to spoil the evening’s pleasure
. . .’

The tallest of the interlopers placed the flat of a large hand on Mr
Dashwood’s chest and propelled him violently backwards almost into the
lap of the pianist.

‘You oughta take it easy, man. We’re using the board just now.’

The M.C. recovered his balance and stood brushing an elbow. ‘Gentlemen,
gentlemen all, please. If you’ll just . . .’

His words were smothered by an angry grumble from the company. The teams
of Firestone and Saltey included men with powerful shoulders and despite
the restraining twitter of female voices and an imperative but
unrecognisable cry from Dixie, several of them moved uncertainly towards
the aggressor.

‘Wanna make something of it?’ He was standing in front of his party, a
gangling menacing figure, gripping a dart by the feathered end so that
the point faced his audience. He took off his glasses revealing pink
lashless eyes which gave his face the unexpected expression of a large
and dangerous rat. His companions stood together, each with a similar
weapon.

‘Come on, big boy. Now’s your chance for a punch-up.’

Behind the bar a glass splintered on the ground but neither group moved
and no single head turned in the direction of the sound.

The frozen silence and the immobility of the crowd gave Morty a chance
which he could not resist. The chief destroyer of the evening’s peace
was standing in the typical position adopted by a would-be attacker in
an elementary demonstration of unarmed combat. The moment was too good
to miss. Morty edged through the silent crowd and caught the threatening
figure completely according to the first instructions as given in the
Vere University gymnasium course on self-defence.

The effect was spectacular. The youth appeared to twist backwards into
the air and then to crumple forward. A judicious and accurately placed
knee in the pit of the stomach brought him winded to the floor, the dart
still in his hand. Morty stood briefly above the squealing figure and
then trod sharply on the clenched fist so that the weapon skidded away
amongst the feet of the spectators.

‘Out!’ shouted Dixie, her voice now clear and authoritative above the
uncertain murmur of voices suddenly free of panic. ‘Out! Out, the lot of
them. Chuck ’em out, boys.’

Tension snapped like a bowstring. The two teams surged forward,
propelled by new found courage and the curiosity of those behind. One of
the remaining quartet lowered his head and charged through the crowd for
the door, leading the retreat.

Within seconds, only the writhing retching creature on the ground
remained with Mr Dashwood bending over him.

‘He’ll be O.K. when he gets a little air, sir. Just help him to the
door, gentlemen, and wish him a very goodnight from one and all.’

By inspiration or instinct the guitarist struck a couple of preliminary
chords and began to sing:

            ‘_Bless ’em all, bless ’em all._
            _The long and the short and the tall_ . . .’

The chorus was widely and uproariously received. Even the insolent
gunfire of departing motor cycles failed to punctuate the rhythm and as
an acknowledgment of the occasion Mr Dashwood led the company in a verse
which would not normally be tolerated in the presence of ladies. It was
a concession in celebration of victory which everyone present understood
and approved.

Morty alone was uneasy. He had acted on the spur of the moment and
achieved a success which was far more spectacular than its actual skill
merited. His chance of penetrating the ranks of disorder had been
annihilated and he had made enemies where he most needed co-operation.
Mrs Weatherby, he decided, might have handled the situation more
adroitly but he could not picture her as a patron of a social evening.

The room was now intolerably close and sweaty. Jovial faces began to bob
up before him, loud with congratulations. Hot hands patted his back and
he realised that honour could not be satisfied but by the acceptance of
drink.

The problem of etiquette in selection was solved by Dixie who announced
her decision by the pop of a champagne cork. ‘He’ll drink with me,
ducks, and we’ll all toast his health. I’ve seen it done on the telly
but never thought to find it happen in my own bar.’

She filled a tankard with the golden elixir and thrust it into his hand.
‘Here’s to you, Mr Kelsey dear.’

‘Properly smart,’ said Mossy Ling from his corner. ‘I seen it done on
the telly too. Use wires, so they do now. A powerfully good little old
trick. Reckon you could teach me, mister? Better if there are two of us
when they come back.’ He sniffed, managing to put a suggestion of malice
into the sound, and gestured down the bar with his glass. ‘Some of ’em
ain’t even gone, I see.’

In the happy back-slapping tumult of the moment the ominous little shaft
passed unnoticed or was ignored. Morty accepted his tankard with
acclamation and it was several minutes before he glanced in the
direction the old man had indicated.

Even before he moved he was subconsciously aware of what he was going to
see, as a man often is when his shoulder blades are the subject of
concentrated attention from a forceful personality.

The girl leaning with one elbow on the bar was watching him with the
deliberation of a cat at a mousehole. Her sombre eyes were
over-emphasised in the fashion of the day but she had transformed
herself from the leather jacketed virago of the morning into something
wholly female. The mark on her cheek had been obliterated by careful
make-up and her dark tightly curling hair had been combed over her
forehead so that it mellowed the hardness of well defined skullbones and
a square determined chin. She was wearing a white sleeveless blouse and
black trousers which fitted like a skin.

For a long moment she outstared him and he was grateful to Mr Hamilton
Dashwood’s mellow claim on the company’s attention to witness the
official peak of the evening.

When he turned his head again she was standing next to him apparently
watching the contest, her shoulder within an inch of his arm.

‘I’m Doll Jensen,’ she said. ‘Remember me?’

Morty took his time before he answered. He was acutely conscious of the
animal magnetism which the girl was exerting and he began to suspect
that the change in her appearance had been made for his benefit. He
looked down at her carefully groomed head and stylish white silk and
decided that she had made a very good job of material which was better
than he had first supposed.

‘Sure. You took a fall in all that broken glass.’ He spoke without
enthusiasm, but his cautious curiosity was aroused. If the girl wanted
to make the running he was quite prepared to let her go ahead.

The attention of the company had now been given entirely to the contest
and the hero of the minute before was forgotten. Conversation was
conducted in lowered voices to allow the players to concentrate on the
game. The girl was looking away from him, but he could feel the warmth
of her arm through his sleeve.

‘That was Moo Moo,’ she said, ‘or so the boys reckon. Grotty great
bastard. He knew I was coming down that night. He’s the one you put on
the floor. That was a laugh. Lucky you didn’t knock his wig off or he’d
have done you up rotten. He’s as bald as an egg and doesn’t like jokes
about it.’

‘Moo Moo?’

‘They call him Moo Moo the Dog-Faced Boy, up at the Flats. Comes from
Wanstead. I hate his guts.’

‘Not a boy friend of yours?’

She continued to stare directly in front of her, talking out of the
corner of her mouth.

‘Never fancied him . . . he’s just a layabout. They let him string along
because he’s a fixer. You know—gets spares and all that jazz. Works in
a garage and knocks the stuff off I shouldn’t wonder. Likes boys mostly.
I don’t go for his type.’

It was on the tip of Morty’s tongue to ask what her type was, but he
thought better of it and enquired mildly, ‘Why do you come here? What’s
the attraction in a dead end like this?’

An obstinate frown crossed her face. ‘Because I bloody like it,’ she
said. ‘It suits me. I’ve got a pad here in a caravan and the rest of
them can mostly find a shed or a hut to doss in if they don’t want to go
home. Nothing to pay. No questions asked. If the boys want a lay or a
giggle or a kick-up they can please themselves—that’s their
business—and there’s no one to tell them to get the hell out.’

‘If it suits them, why make trouble?’

She shrugged her shoulders. ‘Search me. If you find life a bind don’t
you bang around and get yourself a rave? It’s something to do. Better
than a caff or a godawful youth club.’

Morty began to feel old. There was a gap here which he could not bridge.
The philosophy of life, if it could be defined by such a phrase, was
beyond his grasp. The girl continued her deliberate touch against his
arm with just enough pressure to make conversation intimate.

Derisive groans and faint applause announced that the men of Saltey had
lost the first leg of the match. He turned away from her to the bar but
she moved with him so that they remained in contact. She accepted a
vodka and tonic water much to Dixie’s disapproval and as she raised her
glass to him he realised that she had established a degree of possessive
intimacy which he could not defy. In Mrs Weatherby’s phrase book, he was
being chatted up.

Doll Jensen, he felt, was not a girl who did anything without a reason
and yet he did not altogether credit the superficial purpose she
conveyed. He found himself mildly excited and very curious.

‘What do you do for money?’ he asked. ‘You can’t go burning up the road
on a Honda with a handful of dimes.’

She shook her head. ‘That’s for sure. I do a lot of things. You’d be
surprised. I’ve been a waitress. I’ve worked the knocker if you know
what that means—the door-to-door selling racket. I tried the yachting
crew-girl lark in the Med one summer but came unstuck in the winter. I
get along.’ She talked easily, as between equals of two different
worlds, giving him a glimpse of lives and backgrounds outside his
experience or imagination.

After a long reflective drink she looked up at him. She was a year or
two older than he had first supposed, about twenty-one perhaps.

‘What about you? You’re a prof of some sort. And a Yank. What’s in it
for you at Saltey? Digging up fossils or old bones?’

‘Hardly.’ Morty felt an urge to be entertaining but did not rate his
chances as a lecturer very highly. ‘I’m researching. Manners and
customs—history round about two hundred years back. Maybe I’ll write a
book about it.’

He struggled to explain without condescension but knew he was failing.

She shook her head. ‘Beyond me, that’s for certain. I just wouldn’t
know. History’s strictly for the birds if you ask me.’

Suddenly she brightened. ‘Old stuff—you’re keen on old bits of
nonsense. Did you ever see the Sex Pot? It’s ever so antique and groovy
as all hell. Ever see that?’

Morty was baffled. ‘You have me beaten. No one’s told me anything about
a sex pot in these parts.’

She laughed, showing very white even teeth. Her head was perhaps a shade
too large for her body but in this oncoming mood she was undeniably
desirable. Different clothes and change of warpaint, he decided, would
make her a real eye-catcher.

‘Not what you mean, lover boy. We just call her that. She’s carved and
painted—must be hundreds of years old. You ought to put her in your
book. Want me to show you?’

The guitar and piano were now pumping out pop rhythm and despite the
open windows the smoke thick atmosphere was tepid as a London tube. She
took his arm . . .

‘Let’s get the hell out. I’ll show you.’

The prospect of fresh air and adventure was too great to be resisted.
Morty followed her as she twisted through the sweating revellers.

The forecourt of The Demon was still lit by a single arc lamp focused on
the hanging sign and as they emerged he saw that she had slung a black
leather coat over her shoulders and was carrying a long businesslike
torch. She slipped a hand into his, not confidingly, but by right of
being the leader. They crossed into the shadows and walked slowly
towards the dim grey bulk of the weather-boarded sail lofts which stood
on brick piles as a protection against the highest tides. Wooden steps
from the road led to the main doors which were padlocked but she picked
her way carefully by the side of the buildings through a confusion of
small unpainted hulks, wire hawsers, ropes, planks and rusting marine
engines on the muddy slope which led to the Bowl. At the back, within a
few yards of high water, a ladder was propped steeply against a door, a
small entrance which was part of a larger frame.

She climbed lightly as a cat, pushed open the rotting timber and flashed
the torch back on the rungs.

‘Up here.’

He followed her nimbly enough and they stood together in the engulfing
blackness of the great barnlike structure which smelt of the sea, tar,
varnish and decay. With the door closed she took his hand again and led
him cautiously, the beam directed to the wooden floor.

The buildings were made up of four long sheds, each with an open
communicating door. The torch threw brief scudding shadows from a dusty
medley of masts, spars, coiled ropes, empty cases and sacks. From high
above them an imprisoned bird, scared by the light, beat blindly against
the corrugated iron of the roof.

The girl did not pause until they had reached the far angle of the final
section. She was still keeping the illumination on the floor, for much
of the planking was unsound and treacherous. Abruptly she halted her
companion and for a moment they waited in utter darkness.

‘Now,’ she said. ‘Now. There she is.’

The sudden shaft of light which flashed upwards into the corner was
almost blinding. Morty, who had no sort of theory about what he was
going to see, was quite unprepared for the shock of discovery. Above him
towered the blind eyed figure of a woman with jutting voluptuous breasts
who appeared to be soaring between earth and sky, a wooden giantess
whose cold unreality was emphasised by crude faded colours, pink, blue
and grey. Snakes writhed about her forehead and the carving was cruel
and incisive.

He drew a long breath and whistled. ‘She surely is a shocker. What a
beauty, though. Do you know what she is?’

Doll Jensen played the torch over the massive body and the shadows on
the wall appeared to dance.

‘Not a clue. I think she’s just the coolest thing ever. Glad you came?’

Morty moved closer and ran an exploring finger over the formalised folds
of drapery which concealed nothing of the gross curves of belly and
thigh.

‘She’s a ship’s figurehead. About eighteen ten, I’d say at a guess. A
real peach. She ought to be in a museum. H.M.S. _Medusa_, if you want to
bet on her name. Doll, I’m certainly grateful to you.’

Her grip on his hand tightened.

‘You’ll put her in your book?’

‘Surely.’

The girl was facing him now, her upturned head level with his chin.

‘Glad you’re pleased. I wanted to please you, see?’

The kiss was slow, deep and quite inevitable. The girl gave her lips and
her whole body to him with an intensity which quivered between them
without any restraining instinct. The torch clicked into oblivion and
for a time they swayed together, mindless and hungry.

Presently she relaxed and took a couple of steps backward dragging him
with her. Morty, putting out a protective arm, found himself collapsing
easily on to musty sacks whose presence he had scarcely noticed.

The girl nestled and twisted beneath him and he found her mouth, wide
and soft as velvet.

For a long minute neither of them moved and he could feel her heart
beating hard and regular against his chest.

Quite suddenly her body became tense. She was still gripping the torch
in one hand and it now burst into light over his shoulder. Her high
pitched scream of pure terror was directed at something immediately
behind his head.

‘No!’ she shouted. ‘No, you . . .’

Morty had a split second vision of being plunged into the interior of a
meteorite. Agony seized him like a flame which devoured and paralysed
and he collapsed into a pit whose depth was not to be guessed.

                            ★      ★      ★

He did not wake to full consciousness for many hours. Lights, faces and
voices drifted about him like strange fish seen through a distorting
glass. With focus and perspective came pain which dragged him
mercilessly back to reality.

Dr Dido Jones was bending over him and standing diffidently beside her
was Mr Campion.


                              CHAPTER TEN
                           DOCTOR AND PATIENT

‘You’ll probably have a splitting headache for a couple of days, so
relax and take it easy. There’s no great harm done.’

Dr Jones’ voice was cool and her hands straightened the coverlet
brusquely. Until that moment Morty had considered that she was the ideal
ministering angel to smooth the fevered brow and in his wilder daydreams
had envied anyone fortunate enough to be her patient, but now there was
an inflection in her tone which he found too impersonal for his peace of
mind.

‘Don’t bother about explanations. We know most of them, anyway. Drink
this.’

He raised himself painfully as the world swayed giddily about him and
did as he was told. He was lying, he realised, in a large Victorian
four-poster bed in a room which bore all the fussy ultra-respectable
hallmarks of the period. Faded photographs mounted in crimson velvet and
the more ponderous works of Burne Jones and Watts looked down placidly
from walls decorated with ribbons and roses. The back of his head still
opened and closed with searing irregularity.

He made a supreme effort.

‘It would be a help if you told me where the heck I am.’

Dido’s voice came to him from a long way off. ‘You’re at The Hollies. We
brought you here last night. This is Sunday morning . . . Sunday morning
. . . Sunday . . .’

The pain slowly dissolved into clouds of cotton wool and he slept.

When he next awoke he was dimly aware of a large lugubrious face looking
down on him. Mr Lugg was standing at the foot of the bed, a massive arm
supporting one of the posts.

For some time he eyed the patient without moving and Morty returned the
stare. To prove that he was awake he winked.

‘You dropped a clanger last night, cock.’

Morty sighed. ‘You’re telling me. It fell right on top of my head. What
happened?’

‘Gawd knows.’ Mr Lugg shrugged his shoulders. ‘’Er ladyship ’as decided
to open up the ’ouse for the summer season. I’m on tempor’y loan to make
the party respectable and do the washing up—what the Frogs call a
Conscience. They came down together last night lookin’ for yer.’ He
sucked a tooth reflectively. ‘Well, it was me wot found yer.’

‘And brought me here?’

‘Exackly. If you’d been took back to the pub in the mess you was in ’alf
the rozzers in the place would be asking questions and ’is nibs is in no
mood to give ’em answers. I never seen ’im in such a state. As for
Doctor D, it’ll take more than a bunch of forget-me-nots to put ’er
feathers straight. You was a bit public, mate, with your amoors last
night. You can’t go playing Errol Flynn in front of a full ’ouse without
getting your name in the gossip columns. _You was noticed._ Mrs Dixie
blew the gaff on your bit of nooky in black tights so I didn’t ’urry
meself to find you. Then when you didn’t come ’ome and I see yer bit of
nonsense messing around in ’er van all on ’er tod I knew it was safe to
look for yer. You was out like a light in that shed which I might add is
one of the best known local boodwah love nests. That’s the full strength
of the ’ow d’ye do.’

Morty groaned. His head still ached intolerably and for the first time
he became aware that a bandage was closely swathed over a lump the size
of a tablespoon. He put a tentative hand to the spot.

‘You ’ad an argument with a blunt instrument. Know ’oo ’it yer?’

Beyond his line of vision a door opened and he recognised a familiar
voice.

‘A very good question. Have you any idea?’

Mr Campion joined Lugg at the foot of the bed. He was as bland as ever
but the lines on his face were more defined than Morty remembered. The
patient started to shake his head but abandoned the attempt.

‘Not a clue. It came from behind me. I don’t think I walked into a trap.
I—I think that damned girl was as surprised as I was.’

‘So I gather.’ Mr Campion’s tone was diffident. ‘I ran the lady to earth
this morning—not without difficulty. She seems to have been thoroughly
frightened and to have left you to it. Not a loyal type I’m afraid. She
simply fled. She claims she dropped her torch in the rough and tumble
which is probably true since I found it this morning. I returned it to
her. It made a convenient introduction.’

‘But she saw who it was. She shouted out.’

Mr Campion’s frown deepened. ‘That’s just the trouble. I don’t care for
her information at all. It complicates the whole picture. This is a
private war and the fewer people who join in the better.’ He sat down on
the edge of the bed and eyed the young man seriously.

‘You wouldn’t consider dropping out of it? I asked you down here to do a
little innocent on-the-spot observation for me, not to get your skull
cracked. No? I was afraid of that.’

‘If I run away now I’m a lost soul, so include me in. I’m free, white
and I feel as old as the hills, but I’m staying on the tail of this
bandwagon until I find exactly where it is going. Now come clean. Who
coshed me last night?’

Mr Campion sighed.

‘The lady says she’d never seen him before in her life. She’s quite
emphatic about it and swears it wasn’t one of the tearaway boys. A big
man, she thinks, but she’s only really certain of one thing. He had a
black patch over one eye.’

‘Burrows, the man who can hit the weathercock.’

‘As you say—Mr Target Burrows—a very unpleasant personality. Manners
none and customs beastly. From my point of view he has another
unfortunate characteristic—he is liable to attract official attention.’

For the first time that day Morty smiled.

‘You’re being goddam mysterious. Don’t you want all the help you can
get?’

Mr Campion took off his glasses and polished them with a handkerchief
before replying.

‘My lips ought to be sealed,’ he said at last. ‘Like the third oriental
monkey—I see and hear evil but I shouldn’t speak it. For the sake of
your health—and possibly Dido’s—the less you know the better. You
could say that I am trying to find some Government property. If I
succeed I shall misappropriate it, because I have an excellent reason
for doing so. That is why I am not overjoyed when little items like
poison pen letters, unsolved murders or simple unexplained bangs on the
head crop up and attract official attention. I hope I make myself
clear?’

‘You know damn well you don’t. These two guys, Teague and Burrows, have
the same idea, I suppose?’

‘That’s roughly the picture.’ Mr Campion was choosing his words
carefully. ‘This—er—property was probably concealed somewhere in
Saltey about twenty years ago, and if that is the case then Teague
should know where to look for it. Unfortunately he has vanished
extremely efficiently but there’s evidence to suggest he’s not far off.
Burrows on the other hand probably doesn’t know where to look or he’d
have done so long ago. He may be waiting for his partner to show up and
discouraging other enquiries in the meantime. If they are working
together again they make a nasty pair and if Teague, in particular, gets
caught . . .’ He hunched his shoulders and hesitated. ‘If he’s caught,
we’re finished.’

‘How come?’

Campion stood up. ‘Teague has kept his mouth shut all these years when
he knew that a few words could earn him remission—possibly immediate
release, if he played his cards right. He’s a cold blooded adventurer
and it looks as if he’s made his long term plans very carefully, as a
man often does when he’s got plenty of time to think. If he’s caught
before he gets what he’s after, nothing on earth will make him speak.
He’ll die with his secret.’

Outside the church bells had begun their evening peal and a shaft of
light was making the room appear as if it were filled with golden dust.
A motor cycle roared past the house headed for Mob’s Bowl and Mr Campion
waited until the fusillade was over before continuing.

‘If that happens,’ he said, ‘the consequences could be tragic. It would
almost certainly cause the death of a perfectly innocent woman whose
survival is extremely important and it might set up a chain reaction
which would involve a great many more lives. My dear chap, I do know
that this sounds melodramatic and mysterious but the trouble is that it
happens to be unpleasantly true. It’s also a trifle urgent, because I
have very few days left. So you see, Teague simply mustn’t be caught.’

                            ★      ★      ★

The efficiency of Dido Jones as a doctor, never a matter of doubt to her
patients or her admirers, was demonstrated with clinical clarity all
through the evening. She had looked in several times, using a
thermometer which she wielded so as to make conversation strictly
limited, but despite his misgivings Morty found his headache evaporating
more quickly than he had dared to hope. Now she returned bearing tea and
toast. She was wearing a linen suit of pale cream which emphasised the
gleaming ebony of her hair.

‘You’re doing very well,’ she announced. ‘Temperature normal, pulse
normal, bruise coming up nicely. If your head is clear tomorrow you can
go back to The Demon—or whatever else you please. Take it easy for a
couple of days and don’t try to drive a car.’

‘Thank you, doctor.’ Morty put as much penitence into his voice as he
dared. ‘I—I guess, it’s no use saying . . .’

‘Forget it,’ she said. ‘I’m going back to town now. I’ve got work to do
in the morning. Lugg will look after you for tonight. He’s staying on as
caretaker. Goodbye.’

He caught her arm as she turned. ‘Goodbye?’

‘Yes.’

‘Dido, you couldn’t get around to seeing me as a wounded warrior—a
casualty in some goddam heroic cause that I’m not even allowed to
understand?’

Her laugh was cool and almost conventional but there was a trace of real
amusement in it.

‘No, Morty. I simply couldn’t. It wasn’t blood on your face and your
shirt, you know. Just a rather off-beat brand of lipstick. Very
unflattering.’

He did not relax his grip.

‘I guess there’s no future in this conversation. Could you give me a
consultation about my health, say next Thursday at Quaglino’s? It would
give me something to live for.’

Dido freed herself. ‘No. Mortimer Kelsey, I could not. The plain truth
about you at the moment is that you are in the doghouse, which is a very
appropriate place for you, now I come to think of it. Goodnight.’

‘Goodnight is better than goodbye.’

‘If you think so.’

‘Just one thing, lady.’

‘Yes?’

‘Oh, Dido, Dido, Dido . . .’

The door closed behind her so quietly that he did not hear it. Suddenly
he felt old and drowsy. The tea on the table beside him grew cold and
through his dreams the ticking of a clock marked the passing of long
empty hours.

                            ★      ★      ★

Mossy Ling left The Demon at five minutes after closing time on Sunday
evening, a custom by which many inhabitants of Mob’s Bowl set their
watches. He was not in a good mood since despite all his efforts to turn
attention his way he had not been entirely successful, with the result
that he had been compelled to pay for rather more beer than his
carefully calculated economy permitted. Strangers had been sparse for
the time of year and he depended upon their support for his refreshment.
To add to his difficulties the main topic of conversation had been
Morty’s exploit in humiliating the tearaways and there had been too many
other witnesses to make his account of this affair of particular
interest. He had tried a new gambit in the morning but with little
success, for the company had been rather too sophisticated for his line
of approach. Had it not been for his skill in removing unfinished drinks
during the temporary absence of their owners the evening would have been
a total failure.

Now he teetered across the pebbled frontage of The Demon, his footsteps
making a distinctive clip-clip-crunch as he moved, for he was stiff in
one leg and supported himself nimbly enough with a blackthorn. He passed
the silent mass of the sail lofts and shuffled purposefully past the row
of brick and tile houses known as Salt Street. At the far end he turned
into a narrow alley which emerged on to an area of twitchy grass beyond
which lay a huddle of darkened shacks which had once been fishermen’s
cottages. His own habitation, originally a tarred wood stable, had been
converted into a two-roomed bungalow but it still kept its half door.
The latch clicked sharply as he entered and he left the upper section
ajar to give himself sufficient light. Like many old countrymen he kept
the place hermetically sealed in summer and winter alike but the stale
reek of tobacco, cooking, undisturbed dust and blankets innocent of soap
for fifty years did not distress him.

The room was cluttered with a magpie’s hoard gathered from the carcases
of ships and the discarded junk of attics and rubbish dumps. He lit a
small oil lamp, shut himself in for the night and began a long
systematic scratch which he found infinitely pleasurable.

Having satisfied the first demand of comfort he unlocked a heavy
brass-bound sea chest and took out a bottle, calculating the contents
against the wavering flame in the blackened glass casing. For some time
he sat sipping at the nightcap from a tin mug.

A brass ship’s clock hung on the peeling wall, but it no longer
indicated time, so that the sound when it came could not be mistaken. A
floorboard creaked, making the old man jerk his head to one side so that
his better ear was towards the inner wall. There was someone in the next
room, someone who was waiting just on the other side of the door. He
listened for a full minute whilst his hand moved cautiously forward to
grip the stick which had been propped against the table.

‘If that’s you, Jim Teague, you can come on out. I ain’t afraid on yer.’

There was no answer to his call and he moved stealthily towards the
door. With one hand on the latch he spoke again, whispering now.

‘Target? Is it Target Burrows come ’ome?’

He pulled the latch so violently that he almost fell into the stale
darkness beyond. Hands, strong as iron, gripped him by his shoulders and
began to shake him as a dog might deal with a rat.


                             CHAPTER ELEVEN
                           AT CHEFFIN’S FARM

‘There is a female party by the name of Weatherby askin’ for Mr Mortimer
Kelsey, and she was kind enough to add would see her pronto.’

Mr Lugg stood in the door of the dining room at The Hollies, a sombre
apartment whose sage green walls were adorned by maple framed engravings
from the works of Sir John Gilbert illustrating the plays of
Shakespeare. Titania languished over her ass’s head and Falstaff
caroused with thespian vigour.

Morty was making a late breakfast whilst Mr Campion did his best to
encourage the younger man’s indifferent appetite. He had removed the
bandage but his head was still uncomfortably sore.

‘You know the lady?’

‘I certainly do,’ Morty admitted. ‘She only asks because she wants to
know. I warn you, she’s a—’

He got no further. Mrs Weatherby strode into the room swinging a
shoulder bag as if it were a set of golf clubs. She had discarded her
sou’wester and her wild white hair was partially concealed by a batik
scarf. She took in Mr Campion, recognised his type, approved and
overcame her surprise in a single breath.

‘Sorry to barge in on you like this but I’ve dug up a piece of gen which
may be rather hot. Didn’t realise you weren’t alone.’

Morty made the introductions, adding, ‘Mr Campion’s man Lugg is going to
keep an eye on The Hollies for a day or two. Dr Jones has gone back to
town.’

‘A jolly good wheeze,’ said Mrs Weatherby. ‘Keep the snoopers and nosey
parkers out. Everyone in Saltey wants to know their neighbour’s
business.’ She glanced round the room. ‘Not that Kitty Kytie had much
that was worth pinching. A little Waterford and one Chinese red lacquer
cabinet, that’s about the lot as I recall. Still, you never know today.
Things turn out to be valuable antiques that I wouldn’t give house room.
No thanks, no coffee for me. I looked for you at The Demon this morning
and they told me you were here. Dixie Wishart made quite a song and
dance about it but I think a parlourman—if that’s what he is—makes
everything perfectly respectable. You had a house warming party last
night?’

‘You could put it that way,’ murmured Mr Campion. ‘I assure you that the
proceedings were strictly formal. Morty, for example, had nothing
stronger than tea.’

Mrs Weatherby surveyed the younger man critically. ‘If you ask me he’s
either been in a fight or has a severe hangover—probably both if my
information is accurate. However, that’s his affair. I came to bring
news.’ She turned to Campion. ‘Are you in the picture about our local
troubles?’

‘I have a watching brief.’

‘Good-oh. Then I don’t have to explain about this wretched man Woodrose.
I promised that I’d look him up and put things to him straight from the
shoulder. I went over to Cheffin’s Farm last night—that’s his place,
you know—intending to have a bit of an up and a downer with him. And
what do you think? In my opinion he’s done a bunk.’

Morty put down his cup and both men turned on their guest. Mrs Weatherby
continued, clearly enjoying the sensation she had caused.

‘I dropped over on my phut-phut about half past eight last night. It’s a
good safe hour because country people always eat extraordinarily early,
in fact on Sunday evenings they generally have a sort of high tea after
evensong. Not that Jonah ever goes to church, but his housekeeper Mrs
Carp does. Apart from her he lives alone. She’s a Felgate you know and
all that family manage to look remarkably like fish, so it’s just as
well she married that poor clodhopper before he died. She teaches at the
Sunday school and spends her free time in the village, but I thought I’d
be certain to catch Jonah. I found Nellie Carp all right, but there
wasn’t a sign of the man. He apparently went off by car for his usual
Saturday night spree in London and never returned. Nellie sleeps with
her sister on Saturdays and doesn’t come in until the morning. What do
you think about that?’

‘Forgive me,’ Mr Campion was diffident, ‘but the man appears to be quite
a lively character. Is there anything remarkable in his having a night
on the tiles?’

‘Oh, bless you, no,’ said Mrs Weatherby. ‘He’s a one for his roll in the
hay. But always back by two in the morning, regular as clockwork.
Whatever else you can say about him, he’s a worker. I wouldn’t give a
thought to it if it weren’t for what I happened to notice whilst I was
walking round to the back door. The front is kept permanently locked,
except for funerals of course, and it took me a minute or two to rout
out Nellie Carp. She certainly expected him back on Saturday night or
early Sunday morning and was very cagey about telling me anything. You
know how suspicious these country people are—they won’t let you in the
house if they can help it. It was just as well I took a peek inside
before the light went. Jonah uses one of the front rooms with big french
windows as his office. I wouldn’t call him a tidy man at the best of
times, but the place was a shambles—cupboards wide open and papers all
over the floor. In my opinion Jonah did a moonlight flit on Saturday
afternoon and did his packing in about four seconds flat. He drives a
terrible old Ford that I’m sure isn’t road worthy. He’s still not back
because I rang up half an hour ago. What do you make of that? I only ask
because I want to know.’

Mr Campion considered. ‘I think you can take it that _something_ has
happened,’ he said at last. ‘The housekeeper isn’t thinking of going to
the police?’

The suggestion drew a snort from Mrs Weatherby.

‘You can bet your boots that she won’t. Jonah hates any sort of official
and he’ll take a shotgun to a man in uniform at the drop of a hat. He’s
done it before and landed himself in hot water. Nellie Carp is scared
stiff if I’m any judge and she won’t make any move in case she does
wrong. He’s a hard man and inclined to blow his top if he’s put out.’

Mr Campion stood up. ‘I think,’ he said judicially, ‘that we might pay
Cheffin’s Farm a visit. I’d like to have a look at the room which Mr
Woodrose has left so untidy before anyone else does. Do you think you
could arrange suitable introductions?’

It was some moments before Mrs Weatherby answered. Finally she shook her
head.

‘Difficult,’ she said. ‘Damn difficult. That woman will behave like a
frightened oyster if I know her. We could have a bash at it, of course,
but I doubt if you’ll get over the doorstep.’

‘Not even if Morty who is handsome and persuasive found some pressing
reason to ask permission to investigate, say, the hammer beams in the
old barn? With your help he might be able to spin out the conversation
for quite a time. Ten minutes ought to be sufficient.’

Mrs Weatherby’s expression became conspiratorial.

‘Synchronise watches, what? We create a diversion at the rear whilst the
main attack goes in from the front?’

‘Something of the sort,’ admitted Mr Campion. ‘Perhaps you could show us
the way?’

                            ★      ★      ★

Cheffin’s Farm was at the mouth of the road leading into Saltey and the
land opposite the ill fated corner on the seaward side. The approach
lane, long twisting and narrow, was ill kept and pock-marked with
dangerous holes which Mrs Weatherby skirted on her motor scooter with
impressive flair. Her skill was constantly demonstrated for at each bend
she turned in the saddle and waved to them over her shoulder as they
followed in Mr Campion’s comfortable Hawk. The solid Georgian house of
grey brick and slate had a cold unwelcoming air even in sunlight,
emphasised by untrimmed laurels and a large weeping willow which
sprawled like a yellow octopus beside the pillared portico. Several of
the upper windows were shuttered and the whole establishment proclaimed
that it served a bachelor whose interests were not domestic. Only the
outbuildings behind the house showed signs of prosperity and Mrs
Weatherby led Morty towards them with the slogging tread of a route
marcher. Mr Campion could hear her authoritative tones long after the
pair were out of sight.

‘Old? My dear man, old as the hills. Why, in my grandfather’s time we
thought there was a prehistoric barrow in the long field. It turned out
to be a mound built for a windmill, of course, but that didn’t prove
. . . Ah, there you are, Mrs Carp . . .’

Mr Campion gave them plenty of time before he moved. Then he slipped
quietly out of his car and disappeared like a shadow into the enveloping
branches of the willow. No professional burglar could have asked for
better cover.

He was back in the driver’s seat long before his fellow conspirators
returned. Morty, putting his head in at the opposite door, found him
apparently asleep at the wheel.

‘That was real hard work,’ said Morty, breathing heavily. ‘I had to talk
my head off before the old woman would even admit that she could see me
standing in front of her. She’s more like a terrified codfish than a
human being. But Mon was just great—gave me the biggest build up of all
time. Still no dice at all as far as any news about Jonah is concerned.
How about your end?’

The thin man smiled. ‘Have no fear, young sir. I will reveal all when we
get back to The Hollies,’ he said as Mrs Weatherby sped off down the
lane. ‘This is no place for a conference. I hope Lugg has provided us
with sherry.’

‘If I know the lady, she’ll take what she calls a Harry pinkers,’ said
Morty. ‘She likes it dryer than the driest Martini in the business. I
didn’t know you bred them like that any longer. What odds will you give
me that she says “Bung-ho”?’

Mr Campion appeared to give the matter earnest consideration. ‘Evens on
“Down the hatch”,’ he decided and continued the journey in silence.

Mrs Weatherby disappointed both of them. Despite a remarkable assortment
of drinks ranging from stout to white port laid out by Mr Lugg on the
table in the conservatory, she refused refreshment.

‘Can’t stay more than half a jiffy,’ she explained. ‘Got to catch the
dreariest Institute lunch for my local rag. But I simply must know about
Jonah. Has he really skedaddled, and if so, why?’

Mr Campion eyed her thoughtfully over his glasses.

‘Off the record?’

‘Never a word, may I die. Has he bunked?’

The room was heavy with the aroma of eucalyptus from the thrusting
rubbery tree which was rapidly outgrowing the glazing of the roof. Mr
Campion opened the long glass doors and looked round the lush wilderness
beyond before he answered.

‘Mr Jonah Woodrose,’ he said at last, ‘has had visitors. I don’t know
the chap’s personal habits, of course, but no one in his senses makes a
mess like that in his own house if he has a clue where to look for what
he wants. He’s been broken into and entered, as we say in court.
Somebody has made a pretty thorough search of the place and this
includes a couple of large secret recesses built into the back of fitted
cupboards. Jonah would have known how to get at them. His visitor
didn’t. He evidently had a rough idea where they were but he didn’t know
the trick of opening false backs. He just smashed them, probably with a
poker. Only Jonah could tell if anything was taken but the visitor
certainly wasn’t looking for spirits. Both hidey-holes are full of
brandy and most of it appears to have been there for quite a time.
Whether the raider took anything or not is anybody’s guess. But one
thing is clear. All this must have happened after Jonah left.’

‘And he’s not back yet,’ said Morty. ‘I’d say he’d been
hijacked—kidnapped to keep him out of the way.’

Mrs Weatherby was delighted. ‘It’d do the old ruffian a power of good.
What a lark, eh? So glad I dropped in on you two this morning. Now a
promise is a promise but you won’t be able to keep the news quiet for
long. Give me a buzz if anything breaks. Now I really must fly like a
bat out of hell but you do give me your word—’

Mr Campion nodded solemnly. ‘You have my personal guarantee,’ he said,
‘and none genuine without the signature on the wrapper. Unless, of
course . . .’

‘Unless what?’

‘Unless he turns up. I doubt if he is a very truthful character. His
explanation, if he’s forced to give one, might be simple but
unprintable.’

The birdlike speculation died in Mrs Weatherby’s eyes. ‘That would be
disappointing,’ she said. ‘We must all hope for the worst, mustn’t we? A
disaster to Jonah would make tophole copy. Now I really must say
Toodle-oo. I’ll let myself out. Keep in touch, chaps.’

The pleasant green arbour seemed curiously empty after her departure. Mr
Campion stretched his legs from the verandah chair to the low table in
the centre of the room and sipped his drink absently. Outside late
chestnut candles mingled with the profusion of may trees and the scented
air was warmly lazy.

Morty broke the silence. ‘Where do we go for honey?’ he enquired.

It was some time before the older man answered and when he spoke he was
clearly thinking aloud.

‘Jonah Woodrose is a predictable creature,’ he said. ‘Dozens of people
know his routine over a weekend and probably one or two know precisely
where he goes. The cause of his disappearance is more likely to lie
here, rather than in London. Anyone who wanted him out of the way could
set a trap for him quite easily, especially as he always takes your back
road home. The back road passes through The Trough—your old ghost town.
We might be doing ourselves and him a service by restoring him to the
agitated bosom of Mrs Carp before there are any official enquiries.’

He stood up. ‘This is a time for long shots. I think we should explore
Victoria Crescent and the Royal Esplanade.’


                             CHAPTER TWELVE
                            BEWARE OF GHOSTS

The difficulties and hazards of exploration are usually formidable in
any part of the world and the area marked on the Ordnance Survey of 1900
as Eastonville, a title which has long since vanished, could be classed
as inhospitable terrain. Mr Campion, driving cautiously down a track
labelled Runnymede Road, regretted that he had not equipped himself with
a Land Rover or a Bren carrier, for the landscape suggested that it
could well have been a battlefield abandoned for a century after a
Brobdingnagian barrage.

‘These mounds,’ explained Morty, ‘are ancient rubbish dumps and the
swamps between them are just goddam swamps.’

‘Probably malarial.’ Mr Campion spoke with feeling. ‘I think we should
turn off here at Albion Terrace. There are tyre marks going that way.’

For some time they followed the trail which led through a group of
caravans, multiplied and split tantalisingly in three directions. The
area was not entirely uninhabited and since it was unapproachable
without some form of transport, each decaying villa or shack appeared to
possess its own means of communication with the outside world. Passing
the completed half of what should have been a semi-detached villa marked
by an inscription ‘_Glastonbury. No Hawkers, no Circulars. Beware of the
Dog_’, Mr Campion halted the car at the intersection of four rutted
roads. The afternoon had been exhausting. No one, it seemed, had
remarked Jonah Woodrose or his white Ford and the search of a dozen
empty ruins had revealed nothing more exciting than broken tin baths,
discarded corsets and the rusting carcases of dead vehicles.

He got out. ‘If we walk to the top of the next mountain we should
command a reasonable view of the landscape. It will give us a peak to
stand on, even if my wild surmise turns out to be a busted flush as
empty as a shark’s egg.’

The ascent over the uneven slope was not easy but at the top it was
possible to see that the derelict wilderness had once been planned to
develop logically outwards from a circular track far behind them. It was
late in the afternoon and from the chimney stack of a distant factory to
the north a single plume of white smoke hung in the pale sky. Nothing
moved and even a dog who had resented their approach and continued his
complaint long after, was satisfied that it was safe to be silent.

As they turned to go Campion, who had been ranging the squalid
countryside through binoculars, caught his companion’s arm.

‘Don’t look now,’ he said. ‘Or rather—do. There seems to be an ancient
Briton standing by the car.’

He passed the glasses to Morty. In front of the Hawk, looking up at them
with one hand shading his eyes stood a wild figure, bulky, red faced and
dishevelled. He was draped in a ragged army blanket which he clutched to
his stomach and apart from that appeared to be completely naked. Seeing
that he had their attention he waved.

‘And that, if I mistake not, Watson, is our client,’ murmured Campion.
‘He seems to have spent a discouraging weekend.’

Jonah Woodrose greeted them with a sheepish smile which did not entirely
conceal a hint of truculence.

‘Had a bit o’ trouble,’ he said. ‘I wonder if you two gentlemen . . .
why, you’re the American chap from The Demon, ain’t yer? Properly glad
to see you, so I am. Could you give me a lift, now?’

At close quarters his appearance was startling. His fair hair which had
once been carefully combed over a bald dome of forehead hung in a lank
wisp behind one ear and a heavy stubble sprouted from his chin. His
cheeks were grazed and scarred and there was a blue lump beneath one
eye. Morty was reminded sharply of the last time he had seen those
signs.

‘What in heck have you been up to?’ he demanded. ‘Kidnapped by gipsies?’

Jonah scowled at him. ‘Never you mind. Just give me a lift back to
Saltey, that’s all I ask. I’d be properly grateful and that’s the truth,
but I’ll mind my business and I’ll thank you to mind yours. If it’s a
price of a gallon of petrol you’re afraid of—’

Mr Campion cut him short.

‘Didn’t you come here in a car?’ he enquired mildly. ‘Any idea where it
is now?’

The man in the blanket jerked his head. ‘Over yonder. In a little bit of
a barn with half a roof. And a powerful lot of good it is, with the
leads gone and the keys lost. No, no, you get me home, mister. I’ll take
care of that, come the time.’ He shivered involuntarily. ‘Uncommon cold
it is, standing here in a rug full of fleas.’

Mr Campion opened the door of the car and returned with a flask. He
unscrewed the cap and poured a tot.

‘You’d better drink this,’ he said. ‘Then perhaps you might tell us
what’s happened to you. Unless, of course, you would prefer us to talk
to the police. They should be interested. You look like a good example
of common assault.’

The big man seized the cup and drank without drawing breath. He took an
unsteady pace backwards and supported himself against the car.

‘It’s my business what happened to me. You can talk your head off to any
blasted busybody you like and good luck to you. But get this straight,
mister—I’m telling you nothing. Now do I get a lift or do I walk until
I find someone who’ll do a Christian act without any bloody questions?’

Mr Campion refilled the cup but kept it in his hand.

‘I think you’d better listen to me, Mr Woodrose. On Saturday night or
Sunday morning you were waylaid by some little trick hereabouts,
probably by someone you recognised. You were made a fool of. Your head
was put in a bag and you were tied up with sticky tape. It must have
been intensely painful struggling out of it—very exhausting, too. Don’t
deny it, my dear chap—the marks of it are all over your wrists and your
legs. You were bundled off in your own car to this barn where you were
stripped in order to make escape more difficult for you. Your house has
been ransacked whilst you’ve been away and your secret cupboards smashed
open. Do you still want to keep your mouth shut?’

An expression half fury and half bewilderment crossed the man’s face. He
opened his lips, framing words, but no sound emerged. Finally he held
out his hand for the cup.

‘It’s nothing to you,’ he muttered at last. ‘You’ve no call to have any
business with me. You can get the hell out and leave me here for all I
care. I’ll not be catechised by any man alive.’

‘Oh, but surely you have been already,’ said Mr Campion mildly. ‘You
should look at your face in a mirror when you get home. Somebody has
been scratching it around your eyes—somebody with a sharp knife.
Somebody who threatened to blind you, unless you answered questions.
Somebody who has killed one man already. Did you talk, Mr Woodrose? Just
who did you talk to?’

The big man lowered his head like a cornered bull, moving it from side
to side as if he were deciding to charge. Suddenly he shook himself and
stood to his full height, so that on the uneven ground he dominated his
rescuers.

‘Hold your wind, you wilting blasting knowall,’ he shouted. ‘You’ll get
nothing from me. I’ll settle my own scores in my own way. Go on, go to
the police if you’re playing their game. But I warn you that if one of
them puts so much as a foot on my land he’ll get a backside full of
lead. That’s God’s truth and it goes for you, too.’

Campion turned to Morty. ‘He’s still afraid,’ he said. ‘And maybe has
good reason to be, so we mustn’t blame him. Next time it might mean a
silver bullet.’

Jonah rounded on him, but it was clear that the thrust had been felt.
‘You won’t get me with that sort of birdlime, mister. Keep your nose out
of this or you’ll be sorry for it. Now get to hell, the pair of you. I
don’t care for your company. I’ll walk.’

He turned his back and took several paces not without dignity, for he
was limping and the rutted clay was unyielding. Campion caught up with
him and barred his way.

‘Better take a lift,’ he said. ‘As it happens we shall be passing your
gate. You know, you’ll have to get used to the idea of new neighbours.
Some of them have come to stay.’

                            ★      ★      ★

In the conservatory of The Hollies which, by common consent, was the
pleasantest room in the house, Mr Lugg greeted the returning warriors
without any show of enthusiasm. His considerable midriff was covered by
a sacking apron which had once graced an Edwardian charwoman but a towel
draped over one shoulder suggested that he might recently have stepped
out of a boxing-ring.

‘You’ve ’ad visitors,’ he announced. ‘The vicar called to leave ’is
compliments and a parish mag. Sergeant Throstle ’appened to drop in as
’e was passing by. ’E left ’is compliments. Mrs Weatherby ’appened to
nip in round the back ’arf an hour ago, she left ’er compliments and a
little news item. I’ve bin sweeping up perishin’ compliments all the
afternoon. And a couple of blokes come to instal the telephone. That’s
the lot, except a load of coke, someone trying to flog tea on the cheap
and a boy scout who’d like to do the front drive for a bob.’

‘Telephone already?’ said Morty. ‘That was quick. Dido only applied for
it a week ago.’

Campion smiled. ‘We have our uses. That happens to be a wire I _can_
pull. I hope they put in two instruments?’

‘Exackly. One is for common persons and the other’s an ’ot line to the
Archangel Gabriel as far as I can make out. That’s in the room you’re
dossing in. It has a very classy ring, like a ding-dong in an ’orrible
ideal ’ome. It’s Mrs W’s news you ought to be interested in by rights.
She gets about, does that mechanised scarecrow, I’ll give ’er that.’

He waited to make certain of their attention.

‘Old Mossy Ling’s dead. Dropped off the ’ook, very sudden, some time
late last night. The milkman found ’im in ’is shack this morning lying
on ’is bed and says he thinks it was natural causes such as old age,
never washing, telling lies and drinking too much. Mrs W said to say
“Were you interested? She was arskin’ because she wanted to know”.’

‘The ancient mariner in the corner of The Demon?’ enquired Campion. ‘The
professional oldest inhabitant?’

‘That poor old guy,’ said Morty. ‘How come you know him? I thought you
were a stranger in these parts.’

‘Ours was not an intimate acquaintance,’ Mr Campion admitted. ‘In fact,
I only saw him once and that was yesterday morning. I dropped in after
returning some lost property. He struck me as being too good to be true
but healthy enough. Our conversation was strictly limited because he
wished to give me a full account of your exploit and I didn’t greatly
care for the topic. I put him off with a pint, so the custom of the
country was observed. Foolish of me. I should have paid more attention.’

He hesitated, casting his mind back to the incident. ‘I hope this isn’t
one of those mistakes which cannot afterwards be rectified.’

‘If I know Mossy,’ said Morty, ‘he’d spot you for a foreigner from a
mile off and therefore a natural sucker. Did he try you out with the
Demon story?’

Campion brushed him aside. ‘It wasn’t that,’ he said. ‘I had the
preliminaries, of course, but he saw he was unlikely to succeed there,
so he switched to your demonstration of judo. At this point he collected
the expected reward, which he’d worked pretty hard for. I’m afraid we
both lost interest in each other after that and he began to look around
for some new source of supply. He found one too—an elderly couple who
certainly weren’t local. Oh, my dear Morty, what a curse hindsight is.’

He sat back in the big verandah chair and closed his eyes. It was some
time before Lugg broke the silence.

‘You might let us ’ave a basinful of your beautiful thoughts,’ he
remarked at last. ‘What was the next item on the song sheet?’

Campion sighed. ‘A swan song as it turns out. He tackled these people
with what I took to be a normal opening gambit. They didn’t respond with
any great enthusiasm and he began to raise his voice so as to include a
larger audience. He was trying to attract attention, to make himself
interesting, and he could have been getting at anybody within earshot. I
detected a note of simple naughtiness as if he was hinting, or trying to
make a joke with a double meaning. Dixie Wishart—the lady with the blue
rinse—shut him up as if he’d been using a string of four letter words.’

‘That’s all fine and dandy,’ said Morty, ‘she often does when she
doesn’t approve. But just what was the poor old buzzard using for bait?’

Mr Campion paused before answering.

‘His exact words were: “I seen a ghost last week, so I did now. I reckon
I weren’t the only one neither. A powerfully strange thing that no one
ain’t thought fit to mention it.” End quote. Dear me. I hope he wasn’t
signing his own death warrant.’


                            CHAPTER THIRTEEN
                           THE MOVING FINGER

The letter came by the afternoon post on Tuesday. Morty, returning after
an exploration of the odd windings of the little Rattey River inland
from the Bowl, found it on his bedroom table in The Demon when he went
up to change a shirt, for he had invited Campion to dinner at the
excellent hostelry at Nine Ash. It lay prim and unremarkable amongst
several others. There was an air mail from the States, full of his
mother’s limpid charm which flowed from the page as easily as her
especial brand of small talk, a publisher’s circular announcing,
inaccurately, the impending appearance of his book and a couple of
bills. He left it until the last, since the italic minion type reminded
him uncomfortably of a pedantic mentor on his own subject who never
corresponded except to demolish theories and to point irrefutably to
gaps in scholarship.

The West Central London postmark reassured him however and he opened it
with mild curiosity. It was very brief and bore no address or
introduction. The typing was competent but not professional.

    ‘_Tell Doctor Jones that she must not come down to Saltey again.
    Not if she values her sight. Try squirting acid in a dog’s eyes
    if you want to know what will happen to her._’

He read the message twice before his flash of belligerent fury passed
and a chill, which had something of animal panic in its hinterland, took
a grip at his heartstrings. Dido walking, swift and graceful from the
hospital through the maze of staid streets to her Bloomsbury flat. Dido
seized from behind whilst a plastic spray was pressed before her face.
Dido blind, screaming, helpless. He began to feel sick.

London was at most two hours distant, far less if he drove with all his
wits. He could surely find her before midnight, warn her, tell her that
she was the girl he was determined to marry, tell her that she must
never return to this God-forsaken countryside with its sly venom and its
abominable secrets. Plans, pleas, imploring phrases, surging sentences
of desperate urgency chased through his mind. Her expression of quiet
mockery, the look that he had last seen in her eyes, came clearly to him
and he knew that the battle was lost before the opening shot could be
fired. She would never give in to threats and entreaties would only show
him up as a craven ass. The voice of the man he had assumed to be his
correspondent whispered in his ear: ‘Remember that in England the
snobbery of Cool is the offspring of the cult of Sangfroid.’

It was not a time for philosophy. He rang every number in London where
Dido might conceivably be contacted, but found nothing beyond
sympathetic offers to record any message he would like to leave.

‘_Go home under escort and await my instructions. I love you._’ What
else was there to say? He abandoned the idea.

Mr Campion received his companion in the garden room. He made no attempt
to smooth Morty’s brittle nerves beyond supplying a long iced drink of
his own devising. He examined the letter carefully but without comment
and presently produced the folder which contained the photostats of some
of its predecessors. The younger man watched him for some time as he
compared one with another, matching or rejecting. Finally he closed the
folder and placed the new arrival on top of it.

‘I suppose we ought to be grateful,’ he said at last. ‘At least it keeps
matters on the boil and that is rather vital at the moment. Time is our
enemy, amongst others, you know. It could be the greatest of them. That
thought doesn’t make much appeal to you, I suppose?’

Morty was not pacified. ‘But this is a threat, not a wisecrack. What the
hell can I do about it? If I can’t make Dido listen and she goes—’

Mr Campion cut him short.

‘I know it’s a threat, my dear chap, but it has its merits from our
point of view. I don’t think the gallant doctor is in any greater danger
now than she has been for some time but this is a new departure. It has
a little something that the others haven’t got, and that makes it very
interesting.’

‘The minion type face?’

‘It’s not important. The letter is very short and anyone could knock it
out in a few moments in a shop, whilst pretending to try out a machine.
It’s very sharp and clean, so I imagine that was how it was done.’

‘What then?’

‘It introduces an entirely new note. Technically it’s quite different, a
new school of thought. Compare it with all the others and you’ll see
what I mean. I’m not an expert armed with a computer which is the way to
deal with this sort of problem but I can tell a hawk from a handsaw.’

The evening was still golden and the sloping shafts of sunlight made
dappled patterns over the ferns, the long low table with its collection
of drinks and glasses and the threadbare Turkey carpet on which it
stood. Midges and tiny black heat flies were dancing in the warm air and
outside the swallows were swooping in shallow arcs over the grass. A
storm was moving lazily southward from beyond the estuary. When Campion
spoke again his tone was mild and almost conversational. ‘You know, I
think the time has arrived when we should consult the oracle.’

‘Mrs Weatherby?’

The older man shook his head. ‘No. She’s more inclined to ask than to
answer. I mean an expert in the craft of letters. I’ve only seen him out
of the corner of my eye but he’s the odd card in the pack. Our resident
poet, Hubert Oliver Wishart.’

‘“_Beware of me: I cast no shadow when I pass_,”’ said Morty. ‘Don’t
quote that line to him—he’s rather touchy about it. Some of his later
verse has a better right to be remembered, or so he thinks. Dixie is the
only one who is allowed to refer to it.’

Mr Campion stretched his legs. ‘The poet and peasant,’ he said. ‘They
make an unlikely couple. I’ve been doing some research into H.O. and
it’s a curious story. Early success, which after all isn’t unusual, but
there’s no sequel of failure—just silence. Silence and a gap. Then one
book of verse—a _succès intime_ but no great sale. He was born here in
Saltey, got himself a series of brilliant scholarships—school,
university, travel, everything a man could wish. He shot up like a
rocket and vanished. The spent shaft seems to have fallen back where it
started but where did it go in the meantime? From just before the war
until about five years ago there is no trace of him. That could mean
that he became a literary hack and he’s not proud of it. Then he
reappears with a nice wife who could well be a landlady or a landlady’s
daughter. He fits into the jigsaw somewhere—the question is: is he a
shape which could key the whole thing together, or is he just a piece of
the background which is decorative but unimportant?’

‘I doubt if he’ll tell you that,’ said Morty. ‘But he’s open to flattery
and he likes the sound of an educated voice. You might try demonology as
an opening gambit.’

The poet was not at the inn when they enquired. He had gone out shortly
before sunset and Dixie was unhelpful.

‘He took what he calls his staff with him,’ she explained. ‘It’s a tall
walking stick. That means he’s going to walk for miles and it could be
two in the morning before he’s home. I don’t know what he gets up to but
sometimes he has a little drink on the way, so he may go as far as
Firestone or Nine Ash. I hope he doesn’t get caught—it’s going to pour
in a minute or two.’

She was right. The storm arrived in a flurry of wind with a swift
opening tattoo of rain which gave way to a solid downpour. Custom at the
inn dwindled rapidly at the first sign of a pause and before the
official closing hour the two men had the bar to themselves. Somewhere
above them a door banged and Dixie put her head on one side.

‘He’s home,’ she said. ‘He may have been back some time. If you must see
him, Mr Kelsey dear, go up to his attic. But knock. It’s his private den
and he considers himself off duty when he’s there.’

The long low room under the roof was only unexpected because of its
location. The sloping ceiling ran almost to the floor and the space was
reduced by bookcases between the dormer windows which made the chamber
alternately narrow and wide. Wishart sat at a table heavy with books and
papers at the far end, a single green shaded reading lamp emphasising
the craggy lines which scarred his face from nose to chin and formed an
intricate tracery about his eyes and forehead. A scholar in a scholar’s
setting: only the upward glow of light gave his dignity a touch of
theatre. A bottle of brandy faced him and there was a glass in his hand.
He did not rise as they came in but gestured vaguely towards the
shadows. His voice, deep as the G string of a cello, was glutinous and
slurred.

‘There are chairs,’ he said and swayed dangerously as if he might slip
sideways. ‘Anything on them can be treated as d-detritus—sweep it away.
You are late visitors for the country. Do you bring news or shall we sit
and tell sad stories of the death of kings? Or speak of cabbages? Ling
was no king—nearer a cabbage if the truth were told. But he is dead.
Abominably, stupidly dead. Told his last lie, cadged his last drink.
Will we consider him for an overture and so work to a conch . . . to an
Emperor.’

Morty glanced significantly at his companion.

‘Tomorrow, perhaps?’

‘No,’ said Campion. ‘Tonight.’

He took out the letter, unfolded it and placed it in the pool of light.

‘Intelligence from London, Mr Wishart. I think you should pull yourself
together and read it very carefully. We want your opinion.’

The poet’s head with its impressive mane of grey hair weaved uncertainly
over the paper. Then he shook himself and groped in a pocket for a metal
case from which he produced a pair of steel-rimmed glasses. He read the
letter slowly, holding it at varying distances to keep the words in
focus. Finally he replaced it on the table and peered from Campion to
Morty over the top of the lenses.

‘This came to you today?’

Morty nodded. ‘You had one, you told me, last week. Now this. Mr Campion
thought you could help.’

The old man gave a long shuddering sigh. He had clearly received a shock
which was totally unexpected and the effect was sobering. Drained of
colour, his face could have been carved in ivory.

‘What can you tell us. Mr Wishart? Have you no opinion to offer?’ Mr
Campion spoke gently but there was no kindness in his tone.

The man at the table rounded on him. ‘Tell you? I can tell you that it
is cruel, that it is ugly, that it is the work of a sadist or a lunatic.
What more do you wish? It is meant to frighten. I find it frightening.
Is that what I am to say?’

‘But different. You have seen one at least of its predecessors. Does
nothing strike you?’

It was some time before Wishart answered. He had begun to drum on the
table with long dark ribboned fingers. Finally he picked up the tumbler
which had been perched on a pile of books, took it half way to his lips
and replaced it without drinking.

‘Mr Campion,’ he said at last. ‘You are trying to make a point, or so I
suppose. You are proceeding with nods and becks but there is no wreathed
smile. You ask for enlightenment. Now I ask you a question: who am I to
ease your burden of ignorance? I have already given my advice to this
young man and he has chosen to ignore it. I wish no part of his
troubles. They are nothing to me.’

‘But I’m afraid they are.’ Mr Campion was persistent. ‘I think you know
just where the difference lies and that is why you are a frightened man.
This letter breaks a pattern—doesn’t it?—a pattern which you
understand. This letter is not a malicious piece of libel but a direct
threat. I do hope you follow me.’

Wishart pushed back his chair and straightened his shoulders.

‘You are talking in riddles. I don’t know you, sir, or I might suspect
that you hoped to spring a trap. You have the bland air of eminent
counsel dissecting some wretched incompetent in a witness box. Given a
chance you would become hectoring. At this hour my senses may be
impaired but I am not totally blind. I may see through a glass . . . but
not darkly. I see with tolerable clarity, in fact. Tolerable clarity
. . . tolerable . . . I also behave with as much tolerance as I can
muster. What the devil are you getting at?’

Mr Campion accepted the challenge.

‘I’ll tell you,’ he said. ‘Dr Jones and her friends have received a
round dozen of letters, all of them originating from somewhere in this
district even if some were posted in London. They fall into groups. Each
group suggests a type of writer—a disappointed venomous old woman—a
man with some knowledge of what could damage a medical reputation—a
canting religious hypocrite and so on. The police are interested because
they are thinking in terms of conspiracy. I am interested because these
letters suggest forgery. I think they are exercises in caricature—the
work of a single dilettante.’ He waited to let the words sink in.

‘You enjoy little essays in forgery, don’t you, Mr Wishart? Think of
your Cambridge friends, Colquhoun, Middlemass and Swinstead. Three dull
men and all of them rich. Yet each of them produced an unlikely volume
with remarkable literary qualities—very flattering to their vanity. I
wonder who really wrote _Mosaic to Machine_ or _Mandragora Days_ or _Oh,
Mr Cromek?_ Odd books to keep on your shelves, Mr Wishart, yet there
they are right behind your head sitting next to the fifth volume of
Georgian Poetry in which you figure.’

For a long minute the old man stared towards Campion looking through and
beyond his visitor. He was still gripping the table with both hands and
the muscles around his right eye had begun to twitch. Shocked and ill at
ease, Morty watched from the shadows. Wishart broke the tension by
picking up his tumbler and emptying it at a gulp.

‘I do not understand you,’ he said flatly. ‘And I do not propose to try.
You force your company upon me and you make sly references to my
friends. You accuse me by inference. Very well. I deny any part of the
slander. Now go. Get out whilst I still have a hold of my temper. Go!
Go! _Go!_’

Campion shook his head.

‘Not just yet. We have a point to settle between us. I’m not concerned
with the original letters because I rather think there won’t be any more
of them. But if I’m wrong and there is a recurrence then I shall dig
deeper, I shall ask questions about years in your life which ought to be
forgotten. It—er—it could be extremely embarrassing, don’t you think?
Jonah Woodrose wouldn’t care for it either.’

Wishart frowned in an effort to focus his eyes. ‘Jonah?’

‘Yes, Jonah Woodrose. These letters were his idea, I fancy, at the
start. His pressure at your elbow. Your execution, your inventive skill.
There was even a touch of his style in some of them, but I don’t suppose
he appreciated that subtlety.’

Campion’s tone was quiet, almost conversational. Wishart did not respond
for some time but sat immobile with bowed head until the silence in the
room was oppressive. Suddenly he seized the paper on the table before
him and crushed it fiercely.

‘This is not my handiwork. I deny your right to say so. I deny every
part of your accusation. I could never have written this in a thousand
years. You cannot hold me responsible.’

Mr Campion sighed. ‘Oh, but I don’t,’ he murmured. ‘This is by a new
hand, someone who has decided to take over from you. Someone who is not
your partner or your master. Have you any idea who it is? Jonah knows. I
think Mossy Ling knew. It is possible that Hector Askew stumbled on the
truth. Have you heard from James Teague lately, or Target Burrows, Mr
Wishart?’

The poet shook his head. His voice had become a whisper and the fire had
left him. He looked old and exhausted.

‘Teague . . . Burrows. They are dirty words hereabouts. It’s twenty—no,
nearer thirty years since I saw either of them. Now they or their ghosts
are walking again. Mossy Ling said he saw a ghost and suddenly he is
dead. Whatever Jonah saw was real enough to frighten the living
daylights out of him. I saw him tonight but he told me nothing. Nothing
at all, except that he’d had enough. He knows when he’s beaten. But
you’ll get no answers from him if you cross-question from here to
eternity. As for myself I know nothing of any value so I can neither
help nor hinder in whatever mischief is afoot. In any case I am too full
of years—perhaps that is why I have been left alone.’

Morty at least was convinced. The nerves around the poet’s eye continued
to twitch, emphasising his age and underlining the unease he was not
attempting to hide. His face was still ruggedly handsome but it was the
mould of an actor accustomed to playing strong roles caught in a
revealing moment of weakness. It invited pity but not sympathy.

Yet he had fenced very neatly, making no sort of admission, giving no
fact or hint which could be held against him. He sat very still for some
time and then as if jerking himself back to reality took up the bottle
and poured out three fingers of brandy. The voice was steady now.

‘I shall not court a rebuff by asking you to join me. We each of us have
our own touchstones against . . . calamity. This is mine.’

Campion stood up. ‘Just one other question before you apply your remedy,
Mr Wishart. You know this area down to the last puddle. Give me an
expert opinion. Could a man hide here for a fortnight and not be seen? A
man must eat, drink, sleep soundly. Could it be done without friends?’

The old man took a long, reflective drink. Finally he shook his head.

‘I’ve given some thought to that. The answer must be no. The police have
been very active, poking their noses into cellars, which are very rare
hereabouts since the land is only just above sea level, and exploring
every shed and barn in the place. There are no priest holes that I know
of and even an undiscovered hay loft presupposes an accomplice. Teague
had a few real friends, rascals and mountebanks like himself, but most
of them are dead and the remainder are gone long since. Jonah Woodrose
is certainly no longer among them. As to his women—and there were
several of those—the survivors are middle-aged by now and more likely
to betray than to hide. Burrows was a shifty, foul mouthed bully who
made nothing but enemies whilst he lived amongst us. Every man would
play Judas to him given the chance.’

‘Yet their ghosts are walking, as Mossy Ling remarked.’

Wishart drank again. ‘You’re such a clever theorist, Mr Campion, that I
marvel you don’t answer your own question. Where would a sailor man
hide—a man who knew the coast better than any chart?’

‘At sea, presumably.’

‘Just so. At sea. There are three out of work tramps lying up in the
main channel, each with a couple of men aboard to watch the riding
lights. A paying guest would never be found if you searched all day. Not
that I commend the idea to you. Burrows has a very odd sense of humour
as I recall. It would amuse him to watch a man drown.’


                            CHAPTER FOURTEEN
                               CONFERENCE

Sergeant Throstle had a number of questions on his mind but the one
which lay uppermost was a question of demarcation. During his patient
and astutely professional enquiries he had unearthed a number of family
secrets but at every point he found himself tempted to follow leads
which beckoned far beyond the orbit of his official instructions.
Somewhere in the untidy ragbag of facts, rumours and personalities lay a
thread which must bring him to the truth about Hector Askew, but each
likely strand, if judiciously pulled, led to an area in which he had no
authority. Superintendent Gravesend, reappearing briefly after Sibling’s
misadventure, had decided that it was not related to the main enquiry
but was the work of tearaways from London and, in Saltey at any rate, a
matter for the County police.

He had returned to London leaving the field uncomfortably clear.
Throstle, who found his disapproval of his chief’s methods deepening
into a cordial dislike, was suspicious of any facile diagnosis. Every
event of the past ten days had convinced him that the motive for Askew’s
murder could not be simplified into a single sentence. As he said
himself, he was not a member of the Coincidence Club and there were too
many apparently unrelated happenings in the village for his peace of
mind. But the common factor, if there was one, eluded him.

He now sat in the neo-Georgian police station at Nine Ash in a pleasant
green and white office which still smelt of paint, a pile of folders on
the table in front of him, awaiting the arrival of Inspector Branch of
the local C.I.D. with whom he had made an appointment. The idea of the
conference had considerable merits from Throstle’s standpoint for the
old man who was due for retirement at Michaelmas was less touchy in
matters of protocol than the rest of his colleagues and indeed was the
only one to whom his heart warmed.

Branch had not earned the nickname ‘Jumbo’ for his figure alone; his
long and incorruptible memory was considered to be more reliable than
most filing systems. He came into the room so quietly that Throstle who
was organising his notes did not hear him and the big full blooded man
was sitting at the opposite side of the table before he raised his head.

‘Shopping list, eh?’ Branch had a strong East Anglian accent and the
appearance of a substantial farmer. A cherubic fringe of golden curls
still decorated the dome of his forehead and a healthy growth of hair
sprouted from the upper part of his cheekbones.

‘That’s the way, boy. Sort it out, then we’ll know where we stand. A
powerful lot of thrashing around there’s been but not a single rat has
put his nose out of the stack. Mustn’t let ’em stay in their holes.’

Throstle snorted. ‘I’ve had a sniff at everyone I can find,’ he said.
‘And I’m no forrader. I know enough about Hector Askew’s private life to
fill a book and very dull, dirty reading it makes. I know every scandal
in Saltey for the past ten or twenty years and I think I could put a
name to nearly every one of my letter writers. But there’s nothing that
would stand up in a court of law and nothing to connect them with Askew.
You’re right about my shopping list. Here’s item one—Askew’s past. Is
there a point I’ve missed in this lot?’

Throstle’s extensive file with its prim wording seemed to delight the
Inspector. He thumbed through it, mouthing an occasional name and
chuckling reminiscently. ‘Mavis Prentis . . . no . . . Prunella Wisdom,
there’s a proper joke for you . . . Helen Price-Cattermole . . .
wouldn’t waste powder and shot on her . . . you’ve done a thorough job.
You could have ten for a penny if you ask me without any man in the
country giving anything more than a hearty vote of thanks. Now, what
about the property angle? That’s a subject people get wholly riled about
if they’re crossed. Askews have always dealt in property and pretended
they didn’t. Crompton Badger and Keene in Silver Street, which means old
Sid Badger in fact, handle the business officially but he and the Askews
are thicker than thieves. They have a regular method. Old Percy or the
boy Hector run a place down to the sorrowing widow who is their
client—say a house that’s too big for her now her husband’s dead. She
takes their advice and sells out quick and cheap—Cromptons buy for an
alleged client who’s just a nominee and they split the proceeds. It’s a
dirty game and a man could make enemies by playing it. Thought of that?’

‘Yes,’ said Throstle. It pleased him to be a little ahead of his mentor.
‘In the next folio. But it’s The Hollies I’m interested in. Askew was
killed there and all the letters are aimed at scaring Dr Jones into
selling. That suggests the Askews, but Hector’s death wouldn’t help or
hinder the sale by a day if she decided to pull out. Then who could want
the place and why? See page seven for my list of possibles.’ He paused
while Branch turned the leaf and added ruefully. ‘They’re nearly all
over seventy and all female, except for Jonah Woodrose and he has the
most watertight alibi I’ve ever come across and I’ve broken a few in my
time. I accept it, in fact. He’s out. Bringing me to a dead end so far.’

Branch’s eyes twinkled. ‘Item two, to my way of thinking, is what you
might call “A funny thing happened on my way to Mob’s Bowl”. Am I
right?’

‘I have it down under “Unexplained Incidents”,’ said Throstle stiffly.
‘The broken glass. My man beaten up. Dr Jones’ young American friend
walking round the place with the kind of black eyes you get from having
been hit on the head. Jonah Woodrose showing signs of having been in a
fight, probably in London if my information is accurate. And an old man
called Mossy Ling has died suddenly of thrombosis apparently. There may
be no connection but I’d like your opinion.’

Throstle detailed his information. The careful accurate summary took
some time and Inspector Branch opened his eyes very wide and pursed his
lips as he listened. The London man, he decided, was rather brighter
than he had first supposed.

‘All of this brings us to Teague and Burrows,’ he said at last. ‘That’s
about the size of it. You’re wondering if they could be back in
circulation?’

‘It’s just about on the cards.’

Branch considered the proposition. ‘The last of the Pirates,’ he said at
last, ‘Dashing Jim Teague and One-Eyed Target. Very romantic. That could
be, I reckon, but somehow it makes a wonderful untidy fit. If there was
loot on the barge _Blossom_ and she did lay off the Bowl that time, then
both of them should know where it is, for one wouldn’t trust the other
and that’s for certain. I’d bet my pension on it. At most it was about
six hundred quid, as I recall, and in pound notes which you couldn’t
hope to pass today without a powerful lot of explaining. If anything
else was hidden up near the Bowl, and I’m thinking of The Hollies in
particular, Target who was never caught, never even charged, would have
sneaked back and pinched it long since. If they’re both around they must
have met up by now and what their game might be is anybody’s guess. I
doubt they’re lying low in Saltey but there’s a lot of old tubs anchored
out in the creek so we’ll lay on a search there, just to be certain.
Teague has failed to report after coming out and Burrows is still wanted
for questioning for his share in the raid twenty years ago.’

‘Someone has been throwing stones at the weathercock lately,’ remarked
Throstle. ‘And that was Thomas Alfred Burrows’ trademark according to
the locals. I don’t see why he should advertise himself.’

‘Nor don’t I.’ Branch laughed reminiscently. ‘You know why he used to do
that? That old lantern on the sail lofts was used as a lookout post by
Harry Morgan who used to be the Customs chap in these parts. He’d hide
up there all day with his glasses to watch what came into the Bowl and
where it came from. Target knew that, of course, and he used to fling
him up one for luck whenever he came ashore. It was his way of cocking a
snook and he was a wonderfully good shot with a stone. He could hit a
man on the back of the head at twenty paces and half brain him but we
could never catch him at it. He and Teague were the biggest villains for
miles when it came to the smuggling business, but for all we could prove
we might just as well have sat and twiddled our thumbs. Old Waters, who
had The Foliage as it was called then, Septimus Kytie, Matt Parsley and
Jonah Woodrose himself—they were all in the racket one way or another
and the only man we ever caught was a yacht steward who came ashore
there with a packet of heroin in ’37 and he was a poor silly foreigner
from Kent.’

‘Smuggling.’ Throstle seized on the word. ‘Could it still be going on?
Those tearaways who seem to make the Bowl their headquarters—could they
be mixed up in the racket?’

‘They’re a nasty bunch of young hoodlums and one or two certainly use
Purple Hearts if nothing worse.’

He turned to a third file. ‘Three have records: Norman Catchpole, 20,
mechanic, theft from employer. Ronald Lewis, 18, grievous bodily harm,
and Desmond Riddler, 17, breach of the peace and offensive weapons,
meaning razor blades. They mean anything to you?’

‘Trouble makers,’ said Branch promptly. ‘They come from outside my
bailiwick, North London, Islington way, and organise punch-ups at the
coastal resorts mostly just for the heck of it. But drugs in a big way?
I doubt it. They wouldn’t be reliable enough, for to my way of thinking
they haven’t a brain between them. Maybe someone’s using them as
carriers. It’s possible, but . . .’

He paused and eyed Throstle over his glasses.

‘You’re a little off course, mister, aren’t you?
Drugs—narcotics—that’s a job for the boys in the next department. Vice
Squad they call ’em now. Pass it on, man, pass it on. I doubt Hector
Askew ever saw anything stronger than aspirin or cough lozenges in his
life.’

Throstle’s expression became obstinate. ‘I know where my manor ends,’ he
said. ‘Officially, at any rate. But those young no-goods fit into the
picture somewhere. They’re violent and there’s been violence.’

As a concession to the conventions he added, ‘I’ll watch my step,
though. Narcotics can have anything I turn up and welcome.’ He glanced
down at his own notes and asked, almost as an afterthought, ‘Does the
name Hamilton Dashwood mean anything to you?’

It was a long shot and to his surprise the older man responded more
respectfully than he had anticipated. Inspector Branch sat back, brushed
a cloud of cigarette ash from the furrows on his stomach, closed his
eyes and began to recite from his celebrated filing system.

‘That could be wonderfully smart question, Mr Throstle. H. Hamilton
Dashwood, eh? Real name Henry Harvey Done—same initials—they often do
that. Changed it quite legally by deed poll in 1947. Small time crook
who used to hang round the halls in the days of variety shows.
Occasional job as the chap they threw custard pies at. Robbed or
swindled old ladies on the strength of being an actor. Did a bit of time
for it, six months if I recall aright. Nothing known in the past five
years, but he gets around—all along the coast from Southend to
Yarmouth. Travels for a small firm in Ipswich who make carnival
novelties, streamers, funny hats and so on. Short wave radio ham but
registered and apparently all above board. We keep tabs on him every so
often, when we can spare the time.’ He patted his waistcoat absently.
‘Yes, you might get someone from your end to look him over.’

He pulled out a gunmetal watch at the end of a leather strap. ‘Ten to
twelve. I think we’d be the better for a pint. By the way—one other
thing about your tearaways. Nearly forgot it because it’s one of my
headaches and no concern of yours. Next Saturday to Monday—Whitsun
weekend and Bank Holiday.’

‘What about it?’

‘Trouble expected with the ton-up lads, the mods or rockers or whatever.
Apparently there was a fight last Saturday at The Demon. The word is
that they’re coming back in strength for a real old fashioned punch-up.
I’m sending down all the chaps I can spare, which will be about
four—say six with the local man and a sergeant. It should be enough but
we’re liable to be thin on the ground if Clacton or Southend ask for
additional chaps—as they have.’

He stood up and stretched himself.

‘It might give you a lead if you’re still minded that way.’


                            CHAPTER FIFTEEN
                         THE NIGHT OF THE DEMON

Saturday, the first day of the Whitsun holiday, began so gently that the
sun did not disperse the veil of mist until it was no longer dawn but
full morning. In the main estuary the three anchored merchantmen
remained silhouettes without detail, sleeping on water as featureless as
frosted glass. The promise of heat hung in the air and only the gulls
failed to recognise that this was an hour for laziness and whispering.
They swerved and screeched about the Bowl as the tide ebbed, quarrelling
petulantly over mysterious treasures in the mud.

From his bedroom window Morty observed the plain clothed figure of
Sibling emerge from a door in the sail lofts on his extreme left,
retrieve a lady’s bicycle from behind one of the brick piles on which
they stood and vanish silently towards Forty Angels and presumably
breakfast. A solitary bather crunched across the pebbled yard, still
rubbing his back with a multicoloured towel and presently two men in
yellow oilskins loaded a boat with baskets and tackle and rowed away
towards the shipping, their path making a wide swathe of light on the
pearly water.

Morty descended to the reassuring atmosphere of bacon and eggs and put
his head into the kitchen to announce his arrival. The poet of the
saltings had avoided his guest since their encounter but Dixie appeared
to be at some pains to ignore the affair, if indeed she was aware of it.
She greeted him cheerfully as she looked up from a large pan of Demon
cakes which she was cutting into squares.

‘A lovely day, Mr Kelsey dear. Makes you want to sing “Oh what a
beautiful morning!” I hope it stays that way.’

‘Any reason why it shouldn’t?’

Her forehead puckered as she concentrated on the equal divisions of
cake. ‘Well, there is, you know. We had that silly man Simmonds here
last night, full of warnings about mods and rockers and I don’t know
what else, telling me I needn’t open the pub if I didn’t want to—as if
I didn’t know my rights—advising me to watch my step. I told him it was
up to him to keep things in order outside and that indoors I’d look
after myself, thank you. _I have_, too.’

‘Hired a few chuckers-out?’

She laughed. ‘That’s about the size of it. A couple of lads from
Firestone are coming in as extra barmen and the whole of the darts team
are spending the evening here. You’ll be away all day, I expect? I hear
the doctor is coming down . . . ?’

Morty accepted the enquiry with a grin.

‘I guess I’ll look in at The Hollies. You can count me out if you’re
worried about tables for lunch.’

Dixie patted his hand. ‘Just as well,’ she agreed. ‘You’ve made your
peace with her, then? You should never have let that wicked little tart
pick you up, Mr Kelsey dear—it’s no way to do your courting with a real
girl. I’d give Saltey a miss over the holiday as far as you can. It’ll
be overrun with trippers and tourists which is fine for me, since I’ve a
business to run, but no good for people like yourself. I doubt if we’ll
see half a dozen regulars all day. They don’t like strangers. Run along
now and I’ll get your breakfast.’

The invasion began whilst he was still eating. Three motor cycles roared
and skidded over the forecourt, disappearing towards the sea wall and
reappearing from the opposite direction, having established a
rough-riding circuit of the inn regardless of property. Presently a
vehicle which had once been a London taxi but was now painted shocking
pink and decorated with slogans arrived by the edge of the Bowl and
disgorged a group which might have come from a quatrocento harlequinade.

‘Don’t blow your cool,’ proclaimed their transport. ‘This is a Freak
Out. Watch it. Fuzz!’

A sexless face framed with dark unkempt hair appeared at the open window
and a hand holding an enamel can was thrust towards his table.

‘Hey, you. Get us some water will ya? We wanna brew up, see?’

It was a demand made with conscious truculence. Morty surrendered to it
with as much grace as he could muster. Prudence, however, suggested that
he should remove his precious Lotus Elan from the doubtful security of
the stables of The Demon and he drove slowly out of the hamlet towards
the comparative security of The Hollies.

Overnight, several more tents had appeared on the open land between The
Demon and the derelict churchyard and the occupants in various stages of
undress were taking the sun. A new caravan and three or four cars rested
on the twitchy grass. An ice cream tricycle was already doing good
business and a diversity of transistors sprayed the air with a confetti
of competing rhythms, but the true inhabitants of Mob’s Bowl had locked
their doors and barred their windows as for a siege, offering no welcome
to visitors.

Morty was relieved to see Dido’s trim little car drawn up by the portico
of The Hollies but as he approached the garden room his spirits began to
wilt and he found his heart beating uncomfortably. Mr Lugg greeted him
with a conspiratorial grin.

‘’Er ladyship will receive you shortly,’ he announced. ‘And I might add
that I think you’re going to be lucky. My Mr C is comin’ down this
afternoon and ’e seems to ’ave told ’er that you’re not the ’orrible
Carsonoma that you make out. You’re to stay for luncheon which will be
served out of a lot of very classy tins.’

Dido, emerging unexpectedly from the garden with a sheaf of early
delphiniums, found them deep in a discussion on bachelor cooking. She
was wearing a white blouse with trousers of saxe blue linen and her hair
shone like a blackbird’s wing.

‘The patient has recovered, I see,’ she said formally. ‘One of my
swifter cures. No headaches, I hope?’

‘None, lady, none. The marks under my eyes are simply visible signs of
my anxiety for your safety. I get bad dreams but that’s my private
terror complex. Campion says not to worry but I can’t play it so cool
. . .’

‘Forget it,’ she said and put out a hand. ‘This is a holiday. My
official week off from the rota.’

He held her at arm’s length, surveying her from head to toe.

‘Anything you say. Just stand there just as you are and let me get my
breath. If your week turns out to be a century that will be too short
for me.’

It was an idyllic morning. A cuckoo shouted from the copse beyond and
was answered by an echo from inland. From the road behind the high brick
wall came the occasional rattle of a motor cycle, but the garden
remained a remote sunlit arbour unconcerned with the passing parade.

Mr Campion arriving late in the afternoon found them asleep on cushions
and Edwardian travelling rugs on a lawn which was beginning to show
respectful signs of Lugg’s handiwork.

He left them silently and applied himself to the telephone in his
bedroom, comforting himself with the thought that no young woman could
retain such limpid perfection even in her dreams without a certain
amount of forethought. Morty, it was clear had made a deeper impression
than he supposed.

His six calls brought him no comfort and he descended to the tinkle of
teacups punctuated by the ripple of Dido’s laughter. Mr Lugg, another of
her willing slaves, had decided that an Edwardian tea party was fitting,
and had produced a three tier ‘curate’s friend’ cake stand which
supported small triangular sandwiches of cress and pâté.

‘No silver teapot,’ he announced regretfully. ‘It’s been ’ocked or
nicked or given away, I suppose. Below stairs spoons, too, but the
china’s O.K. Came out of one of the knick-knack cases . . .’

He paused disapprovingly as a passing motor cycle drowned his words.
‘And that’s another item which is not the article, if you take me. Very
mackaber. Ton-up kids wearing voodoo masks. They’re ’orrible enough
themselves, without that.’

‘Masks?’ enquired Mr Campion mildly. ‘Did you say voodoo masks?’

‘That’s exackly what I said.’ Mr Lugg was forthright. ‘Like those
shrunken heads which are just the job for making the parlour look ’omely
when you come back from a luxury cruise to central Africa. You can get
’em at any shop when you ’appen to be laying in yer stock of itchin’
powder, green deformed ’ands, vampire’s teeth and what not. Only these
’appen to be more Chinese, tiger type.’

‘Or Demon style?’

‘Young demons ’ell bent on ’aving a kick-up at The Demon, I shouldn’t
wonder. If I was you, Mr Kelsey, I’d give your ’otel a miss until
they’ve gone.’

‘The trouble with a mask,’ said Mr Campion, ‘is that the face behind it
can be any age you like. Who’s to tell? I think Lugg has a point there,
you know.’

                            ★      ★      ★

Mob’s Bowl was having one of those days which Ned Ward, the London spy,
would have recognised as belonging to his own age. Londoners flooding
out to the coast to catch the holiday sun were seeping like a tide into
every byway and The Demon, as the last hostelry on a road which ended at
its doorstep, caught a large share of the trade. Sandwiches and the
celebrated cakes disappeared by battalions, washed down with beer more
easily measured by the barrel than the pint. By midday the narrow road
from Forty Angels was blocked with cars unable to turn and only cyclists
infiltrating by footpaths could reach the inn or the sea wall, except by
abandoning transport and proceeding afoot.

Dixie, working with concentrated skill and apparently inexhaustible
energy, was not happy. Money was pouring in but the total occupation of
the house by apparently militant youths dressed in what looked like
uniforms cast off by S.S. troopers or Austrian Hussars made her nervous
and at moments actively frightened. The rockers, who by definition ride
more powerful machines than mods and who make a display of living
dangerously, had established themselves in the main bar shortly after
noon and occupied it exclusively by strong arm tactics, so that less
forceful customers crammed the Snug and passed refreshments by hand to
those outside.

The masks, evidently agreed upon in advance as the smart wear of the
day, produced their quota of sensation, for the designer had avoided the
accepted pantomime convention of wickedness and created a face with
narrow oblong eyes, wisps of horsehair for a Capricorn beard and a mouth
of the same cruel shape outlined in scarlet. Stripes of yellow and black
like tribal markings scored the cheeks. The intentionally shocking
quality was increased by the modernity of the presentation of mindless
wickedness which yet had echoes of the ancient pit.

There was no doubt of their success in creating an atmosphere of
dangerous uncertainty, but the heat of the day cut the triumph short.
The penalty for wearing such an emblem of terror for more than a few
minutes in a close atmosphere is a suffocating bath of perspiration and
the denial of refreshment. Having achieved their purpose the owners
either pushed them to the tops of their heads or discarded them
altogether.

A police van, a uniformed motor cyclist and an official car had arrived
before noon and the vehicles were prominently parked in front of the
inn. Embarrassed and impotent, the occupants sat with apparent
indifference whilst the revellers danced invitingly around them,
resuming their masks for the purpose. It was a display of defiance, half
comic and half menacing. Discomfited Authority is always a delight to
holidaymakers and the free entertainment was received with relish.

Sergeant Throstle having taken stock of the situation muscled his way
into the main bar and drank a pint of warm beer with rather less
opposition than he had secretly hoped. He took mental notes of those he
recognised, but since he himself was known to several of the customers,
his eavesdropping was limited to well chosen insults aimed at him from a
safe distance. Presently he retired discreetly to the sail lofts and
ensconced himself in the comfortable but unpleasantly warm eyrie of the
lantern. The lookout point of Harry Morgan had been wisely chosen. With
his glasses he could pick out every detail of the anchored shipping,
admire the figures of the water skiers from across the estuary who
careened around them and count the crews of small yachts with billowing
multicoloured spinnakers far out to sea. Bathers along the sea wall
defied the mud and struggled out into the flat water. Inland, the narrow
neck of road to Forty Angels was clearing and picnickers dozed amongst
their papers and bottles on the verge. A concentrated roar of engines
from the ground closer to him caught his attention and he leaned forward
counting heads as the invading army departed as noisily as it had
arrived.

He followed its progress across the saltings and finally lost it as it
vanished like a swarm of angry bees heading towards Nine Ash. A dancing
curtain of heat hung over the further hamlet and for a long time there
was no human movement. Presently Throstle eased his body on the straw
padded sacking which covered his perch, stretched himself and fell
deeply asleep.

He was awakened by a clang above his head which startled him into a cold
sweat and made his ear drums dither. The second sound, that of a stone
rattling and sliding down the corrugated iron roof just below him,
explained the cause and he jerked himself forward in an effort to
discover the origin of the missile. From the forecourt of The Demon a
group of picnickers and a solitary policeman were looking curiously in
his direction and he watched grimly as the man in his blue official
shirt set out to discover the disturber of the peace. The search was
careful enough but plainly fruitless for it was impossible to guess the
direction from which the stone had come and each caravan, tent, shack or
abandoned boat offered cover for a marksman.

Throstle descended from his perch and made his way towards the uniformed
man. He was not the local P.C. Simmonds but the young mobile officer who
had remained after the main party had left.

‘Any luck?’ he enquired.

The youth shook his head. ‘A skylarking kid, I reckon. Makes a din, that
old weathercock. You want a good eye to hit it.’

Throstle nodded towards the police cycle with its shining aerial parked
by the inn. ‘Are you in touch with Nine Ash on that thing?’

‘Just about—it’s only short range. If you’re interested in the
tearaways they headed off towards Maldon and Mersea. Inspector Branch
said to tell you if I saw you. He thinks they may come back.’

                            ★      ★      ★

The long twilight of late May did not bring peace to The Hollies for
after sundown the roaring rattle of motor cycles began again and the
trees beyond the walled garden flickered into spasms of unnatural detail
as the turning headlights took the corner on their way to the Bowl. With
nightfall came a small, chill wind which shivered the last of the may
blossom to the grass and brought wisps of shouting and laughter across
the saltings. An occasional rocket swept into the air to burst in a
plume of stars and the erratic banging of squibs and small fireworks
added their quota to the atmosphere of discomfort and unease. The Bowl,
whether it had been invited or not, was having a party on its doorstep.
Nearer at hand even the Angel was having a share of custom but the
barrackroom quality of its welcome did not encourage visitors to a
second drink.

Dido and her guests ate a cold meal almost without conversation in the
formidable mahogany-laden dining room. The drop in temperature had wiped
out the day’s magic and Mr Campion after his afternoon with the
telephone sat with one ear directed towards a bell which refused to ring
in reply. His face was drawn as if the lines about his mouth and
forehead had decided to become permanent. They drank coffee in the
garden room where with twilight the scent of eucalyptus had become
heavier. The table had been spread with a map of the eastern suburbs on
which he had traced in blue pencil the western end of the ancient route
linking Saltey with the original Mob’s Hole at Wanstead.

Beyond this, towards Stratford, Hackney and Ilford as far as Islington,
the area was spattered with small crosses whose meaning he did not
explain beyond saying vaguely. ‘All drinking pools, you know. Every wild
animal drinks somewhere, sooner or later. The trouble is, there is such
a hell of a lot of them.’

The wail of a siren like the melancholy warning of wartime air raids
came distantly to the group and instinctively they turned their heads in
the direction.

‘The fire station at Firestone,’ said Morty. ‘They make that noise to
alert part-time members. I wonder what’s cooking?’

Mr Lugg’s voice from inside the house but above their heads brought
news. ‘A tidy little blaze out at the Bowl, I’d say. Come up ’ere and
take a dekko. Might be the sail lofts by the look of it.’

Morty caught Dido by the shoulder. ‘Nothing to do with us,’ he said.
‘You’ll stay right here. If you want a view go and watch from a bedroom,
but no joining the fun tonight. What do you say, Campion?’

‘I? Oh, I agree. Probably too many spectators already. All the same, I
think I shall add to their number. You never know who may be helping on
an occasion like this.’

He slipped quietly into the garden and disappeared among the shrubs and
trees beyond, evidently making for a door in the wall which was normally
kept locked.

Towards the Bowl the sky was ominously red and flames were lighting the
low clouds which had gathered unnoticed since sundown. Morty and Dido
stood by the landing window at the head of the staircase.

‘Not the sail lofts,’ he said at last. ‘Not the church either. I can
pick them out. It must be this side of The Demon—the cottages,
perhaps.’

Mr Lugg descended breathily from the attic, an enormous pair of
binoculars slung round his neck.

‘Matt Parsley’s coffin shop, what used to be. Gorn up a fair treat.
Tide’s out too. They’ll have a job putting the dampers on that old box
of shavings.’ He turned his head. ‘’Ere comes the engine. Reminds me of
my old days in the ’eavy rescue squad. Lovely work when you could get
it.’

The clamour of the bell swept to a crescendo as the engine roared past
the house and swayed gallantly on its way to the Bowl. The exciting
sound continued for a few moments and then ceased in a final desultory
clang. A screech of brakes was borne on the wind.

A more discreet ringing within the house, drowned by the urgent warning
on the road, suddenly became dominant and Morty made a move to the hall.

‘Telephone. I’ll take it. It may be for Campion.’

Lugg had forestalled him, standing by the receiver in his best upper
servant manner and speaking with an unctuous refinement which was
ephemeral.

‘The ’Ollies ’ere. Dr Jones’ residence. Can I ’elp you? Oh . . . I get
you . . . Well, ’ang on, cock, and I’ll see what I can do for yer.’

He placed a hand on the mouthpiece and turned to Dido who was half way
down the stairs.

‘It’s the police, miss. Simmonds the local nark by the sound of ’im.
Shall I tell ’im to bung off?’

Dido took the instrument and waved them away. When she returned her
manner was determined and professional.

‘A man has been hurt down at the Bowl,’ she said. ‘They think he may
have broken something. I’m on my way.’

                            ★      ★      ★

The fire in the ugly black shed which had served so many generations of
carpenters, wheelwrights, boat builders and coffin makers marked the
peak of a riotous evening, in which temper and hysteria had fought
mindlessly for the upper hand. With the return of the Demons in their
masks the demarcation line between friend and enemy had been clearly
drawn. In the saloon of the inn the invaders, arriving in a body,
attempted to repeat their tactics of the morning, but on this occasion
the reception committee was organised and formidable. A dozen youths
waiting for trouble faced as many as were looking for it.

After a few minutes’ uneasy silence the storm broke. A fire cracker
tossed between the two sides leaped and spluttered like an animated
gauntlet, an insult which called for satisfaction.

For a moment or two a tense almost stilted formality hung over the room.
When the squib had made its final kick the captain of the Saltey darts
team, a bullnecked giant with red hair and a virile display of side
whiskers, walked from his corner towards the masked figure whom he
suspected of issuing the challenge.

‘I don’t think much to that,’ he observed and swung a hammer fist to the
offender’s jaw.

A police whistle blown piercingly just outside the room added its oddly
appropriate note, as if the film director of a thirty year old western
had taken charge and a generation reared on the tradition of such bar
room battles rushed to share in the pandemonium. Behind the shouting and
the breaking of glass the curious high pitched scream of youth enjoying
its lack of inhibition made a background of light headed frenzy.

The resentment of the local men against the possessive arrogance of
invading strangers had reached the point of no return. Each man sought
out his opposite number, happily determined to repay months of
calculated insult.

The fight in the bar itself was brief but destructive. Dixie’s first
shout had brought the professional henchmen into action. They moved into
the mêlée with the vigour of rugby forwards, seizing the brawlers
without favour, and a group of four policemen who were forcing their way
in found themselves presented with struggling partisans gripped from
behind but still hitting and kicking at any target offered. One by one
the contestants were flung into the forecourt where the fighting
continued as if it had never been interrupted.

With the doors of The Demon locked and bolted the larger arena presented
greater problems to the uniformed men and the illusion of total war was
increased by the clattering of football rattles and banging of squibs
which were flung towards them at each attempt to break up a scuffle.

Lesser spirits straddled their motor cycles, roaring the engines,
darting venomously in and out of the groups, flashing their headlights
into the eyes of all who stood or struggled in their path. Stones
rattled against the wooden walls of the inn and windows splintered.

The fire in Parsley’s coffin shop passed unremarked until it was well
under way. A tongue of flame streaked out from beneath the pantiled roof
and a long barn door fell outwards with a crash followed by a gust of
smoke and sparks. The effect was as dramatic as a gong which ends the
deciding round in a prize fight for the sudden draught gave the blaze
all the force it needed to become a furnace.

The shed stood on the landward side of the road and directly faced the
sail lofts. Beyond it lay the straggling range of brick and weatherboard
cottages which made up most of the Bowl. Here was the communal danger
which overrode minor enmities. Police and local supporters took in the
fact without hesitation and the invaders found themselves abandoned.
They stood together in groups watching the new entertainment, shouting,
jeering, waiting for the next mischief that offered. Excited girls
twittering like early morning starlings flocked round those of their
heroes who had been visibly injured, but the focus of attention was on
the fire which leaped and crackled into the night sky.

The body of a youth from Firestone named Alfie Binns had lain beside a
car in the forecourt for some time before it was remarked. He lay very
still, his quick shallow breath hardly moving the strands of hair which
covered his mouth, and one leg was twisted unnaturally beneath him. It
was Dixie, who had been organising a chain of buckets from the back of
the inn where there was a working pump who found him and for a
terrifying moment she wondered if he were dead. She knelt beside him
feeling for a pulse and leaned back to call to the hovering figure of
her husband some paces away.

‘He’s hurt pretty bad. Get a blanket. Get a policeman. Get a doctor.
Look sharp about it—we mustn’t move him.’

She was still beside him twenty minutes later when Dido appeared
escorted by Morty.

In the meantime the fire had reached its zenith and the brigade,
arriving to discover that a single pond was their main source of water,
were working desperately to keep the blaze to the doomed shed. In and
out and round about the Demons danced and jeered, flinging more water on
themselves than on the flames.

The night’s mischief was suited to their mood and the excitement was
more intoxicating than the little grey blue pills which purchased only
evanescent thrills.

The group around the prostrate figure watched Dr Jones warily as she
made her examination. Finally she stood up, brushing her hands together.

‘Fractured tibia, I’m afraid. Probably caused by a kick. And he’s
concussed, meaning that he’s had a nasty crack on the skull as well. We
must get him away. Ambulance?’

P.C. Simmonds smirked. ‘All arranged, miss. Should be here any minute. I
phoned for it when I found I couldn’t get a doctor—I mean when Dr
Thornton couldn’t . . .’ His voice trailed away and in the flickering
light his face showed a brick red. ‘I mean before you came along to give
a hand.’

It was towards midnight before any member of the party could relax. The
ambulance had come and gone. Parsley’s shed had subsided into smoking
ruins: the revellers had lost interest and vanished into the chilly
darkness.

Dido, Dixie and Morty sat exhausted in the kitchen of The Demon which
faced on to the stable yard.

‘It’s better here, ducks,’ their hostess explained. ‘No one to watch us
for one thing and the windows are still all there.’ She dispensed whisky
in generous tots. ‘What a night! Makes poor old H.O.’s book look like a
kid’s fairy tale. Perhaps I could get him to add a chapter about it.’

Morty kept a protective arm round Dido’s chair. ‘Where is he, by the
way?’

He was answered by the appearance of the poet who opened the passage
door and stood beside it, his face very white beneath black smudges of
soot. He was out of breath and shaking violently. He leaned for a moment
against the lintel and then collapsed on to a bench by the table. Dixie
moved over to him like an anxious hen but he waved her away.

‘I’m not drunk,’ he said. ‘But in a state of shock. The act of burglary
brings with it a sense of insult—a personal affront. I find it very
disturbing.’ He looked up and spoke directly to Dido. ‘Would you agree
to that, Dr Jones? It is the impact on the mind, not the deed itself
which destroys the balance.’

She nodded. ‘Certainly. The unexpected is always shocking. But you said
burglary? Where?’

‘Right beneath your feet, madam.’

‘In the cellar?’ said Dixie. ‘But there’s nothing to steal. Have those
wretched tearaways been . . . Oh, come on H.O. dear. Don’t keep us
waiting.’

The poet knotted his forehead. He was very near nervous exhaustion and
he ran the fingers of both hands through his coarse grey mop of hair
before he answered.

‘The cellar. Quite senseless and wanton.’ He turned to Morty. ‘You’ve
never been down to it, of course. It is damp, uncomfortable and too low
to stand up in. We use it only for the draught barrels and for storing
idiotic possessions which we are too idle to destroy. It has been broken
into, two barrels have been emptied and a hole has been smashed in one
of the walls. A silly ignorant thing to do, even for children crazed
with drugs or drink.’

Morty interrupted him. ‘I don’t get it. You said a wall had been
smashed. What’s on the other side of it? A secret passage or something?’

The old man sighed wearily. ‘It’s nothing of any significance today. It
was a secret of sorts in the time of my predecessors. Beyond the wall,
which is only the thickness of a brick, is another cellar which is
perhaps a foot deeper. It is useless because it is inclined to flood at
high tides. It may have been valuable once for hiding smuggled goods and
it has a separate entrance, under this very floor, a trap door which is
never used. But not even a rat could make a home there. Yet
someone—someone who knew it was there—broke his way into it this very
evening. A mad world, my masters.’

Dixie, who had armed herself with a torch, bustled away to inspect the
damage. When she returned her face was pink with fury.

‘The young brutes,’ she exploded. Two whole barrels of best bitter gone
to waste and a mess like you never did see. I’ll give ’em Demons. Not
another single one of them sets foot in this place again. If Simmonds
weren’t such a hopeless ape I’d . . .’ She paused as a new idea occurred
to her. ‘It must have been done whilst we were away at the fire. That’s
the first time the place has been empty for years. I left the scullery
door so that the men could get to the pump.’

                            ★      ★      ★

Mr Campion was waiting for Dido and Morty when they returned to The
Hollies. They had driven back in her tiny car past the damp skeleton of
the shed, past darkened caravans and through the silent street of the
Bowl where not even a cat moved.

He came to the door at the precise moment when Morty was speculating on
his chances of attempting a farewell embrace and deciding that the
situation was too hackneyed to risk disaster.

‘Lugg is brewing cocoa,’ he remarked. ‘But perhaps something a little
stronger is in order. I prescribe tea, myself. Very soothing after the
return of the Demon to these parts. Quite a day for the memoirs.’

They poured out their news to him in the garden room and he listened
gravely.

‘Very interesting. Significant too, as the man said when he heard the
last trump. As it happens I can add a couple of items. You didn’t, I
suppose, drop into the church during the course of the evening? I know
it’s supposed to be kept locked—a very wise precaution considering the
state of the roof—but the vestry door at the back is remarkably
insecure and no match for a man of my determination.’

He surveyed them over his glasses before continuing. ‘No? The place has
had a visitor, the same intruder, perhaps, who smashed down H.O.
Wishart’s cellar wall. Almost certainly the same crowbar would be
needed. Two tombs in the lady chapel have been opened very unskilfully
and an engraved flagstone has been prised away from the centre aisle
just below the altar steps.’

‘Goddam vandals,’ said Morty. ‘Not that they could do real damage there.
There’s not much of interest. The Lady Margaret tomb—fourteenth
century—and Jonathan Woodrose, gentlemen, seventeen hundred and two?’

‘As you say. And in the aisle Jeptha Kytie, vicar and benefactor,
Jessica his wife, James and Enoch his sons with Jennifer Honiton, his
beloved daughter, laid to rest between 1784 and 1810. By the way, there
was nothing unexpected in any of the tombs, if you exclude a mummified
cat, and I don’t think there has been for many years—if ever.’

‘An organised search, though,’ said Dido. ‘What were they looking for?
Treasure?’

Mr Campion considered. ‘You could call it that, I suppose,’ he said at
last. ‘But it’s a little word I don’t care to use at the moment.
Whatever it was they didn’t find it, for the simple reason that it
wasn’t there. The searcher wouldn’t have gone on to the Demon if he’d
found what he was looking for. We know pretty well when the cellar was
raided—the fire gives the time within the hour. The church could have
been desecrated any time in the last week or two as far as I can see
because nobody has been there officially since Easter. The fire may have
been arranged to create a diversion for the raid on the inn. Again
whoever it was didn’t find what he wanted.’

‘Why so?’

‘Because,’ said Mr Campion with authority, ‘of the wanton damage to the
barrels. It’s a commonplace reaction on the part of a thief if he’s
disappointed. Ask any policeman. A man who gets what he wants generally
removes his traces and skips away like the wind. What a pity I didn’t
keep an eye on The Demon tonight. I spent far too much time observing
who was helping and who was hindering the valiant men of the fire
brigade.’

He sighed and sipped his tea. ‘Oh, well; a nice long day tomorrow, _mes
enfants_.’

‘Just a minute,’ said Morty. ‘You’re holding out on us. You said “a
couple of items”. What’s the second?’

The thin man eyed them owlishly.

‘The second item is a matter for me alone. It’s no real concern of yours
and you will please put it in the top-secret-burn-before-reading class.
An old friend of mine called Stanislaus Oates who has been helping me in
my enquiries, as he would say, telephoned half an hour ago. He has
located the elusive Mr James Teague.’


                            CHAPTER SIXTEEN
                           TWENTY YEARS AFTER

The retired Assistant Commissioner was remarkably pleased with himself.
He sat beside Mr Campion whom he had just joined as they drove sedately
through the secondary streets which lie between Islington and Walston
and gave directions on the route with appropriate pride.

‘Turn left at the next launderette opposite the Bingo Hall, then right
at the Home Bonus Self Service and take the left hand fork at Honest Bob
Eachways betting shop. Not your sort of area, my lad, but you’d be
surprised at what goes on if you lift the lid. This is Ramsden Lane
where an old woman called Mother Carey kept a snake farm. The whole
house was full of ’em, cobras, pythons, boa constrictors, everything
you’ve ever seen in a zoo. She walked off one fine summer morning and
never came back. The sanitary people got on to it in the end and they
had the devil’s own job to clear the place because the creatures had got
under the floor boards, into the roof and into every cupboard and
wainscot. The last thing she did before she vanished was to set them
free and it was six weeks before the matter was even reported.

‘Ron the Rajah lived two doors up, just above the Chinese Expresso. A
very good forger, specialising in foreign currency and doing his
business with coloured people. He did five years for his trouble and
died a rich man.

‘The hole in the ground is where the old Imperial used to be. Almost the
last of the Halls apart from Collins. They found out too late that it
ought to have been preserved as a national memorial to the good old days
but they kept the pub next door. That’s where we’re going.’

‘The Cap and Bells?’

‘That’s it. A Victorian masterpiece, so they say. Four different
bars—and a couple of cubby holes where you poke your face through
little glass windows to ask for your drink, though why that should make
it respectable I don’t know. Pull up further along beside the radio
shop.’

The Private Saloon of the big red brick hostelry was a small, eminently
correct cubicle, upholstered in red leather and decorated with cut glass
advertisements for long forgotten brands of spirits: McNab’s Dew of
Kirkcudbright and Auld Laird Malt Special.

At this early hour on Sunday evening it was a quiet family place where
elderly couples sat together gossiping placidly. Time appeared to be
standing still and the newcomers were observed without comment. The
sound of children drifted in from the street for the doors were open to
the warm city air.

‘Better settle for a long one,’ muttered Oates. ‘We may have quite a
wait ahead of us. This is going to cost you a packet. Time and half and
all expenses, you said.’

‘I feared as much,’ said his companion. ‘How many men did you have on
it?’

Oates smiled reminiscently. ‘After it occurred to you that I might still
be useful,’ he said, ‘I had six—all ex-officers from Foxy Foster’s
bureau. You wouldn’t know him but he used to be a Super in S Branch.
Then I added two old pals from Records and a couple of women who retired
years ago to get married. Quite a team if you include me as the brains
of the act. You know, Albert, I’ve enjoyed this enquiry—it was quite a
challenge. We old ’uns can still teach the boys a thing or
two—especially when it’s a money-no-object job. You can’t ask men to
comb every pub on a list of two or three hundred and not take a drink.
If they do they’ll be rumbled straight away. That’s the advantage a
private firm like Fosters has over the regulars.’

‘That, and of course brilliant direction from a real expert.’

The old man snorted. ‘It was just putting all the available evidence
together and it was precious thin on the ground let me tell you. Man of
sixty odd, woman forty-fivish, possibly a pro in her time, a woman who
could have been dressing “old fashioned”. Apparently because of modern
styles women of that class sometimes do—it puts older men at their
ease, gives them confidence that they are not going to be snubbed or
made to look like silly old goats. Then again, this disappearance was
prearranged, very carefully planned indeed by someone who had taken a
lot of trouble to think it out. I think you’ll find that our man has a
well established identity—probably in the name of someone who’s dead or
gone overseas, so that he has all his health cards stamped and in order.
That gave us a woman with a genuine background, probably quite a
respectable one, a woman who very likely owns a small car—Teague must
have gone by car when he disappeared—someone who prepared the way by
announcing that her brother or uncle or cousin was going to join her
from up North or wherever you please, so there’s no surprise locally and
very little gossip when the new lodger appears. It narrows the field
quite a bit.’

He eyed Campion respectfully over his half finished pint. ‘Your idea
helped, of course, but it was still the leg work that produced the
result.’

‘Skipper?’

‘That was a long shot of yours, but it paid off. Yes, he’s called the
Skipper, because he talks about boats, just as you said. I haven’t seen
him myself, mark you, but the identification is pretty positive.
Sergeant Openshaw, one of Foxy’s men, found him. The woman’s name is
Medway, by the way, Mrs Rita Medway, and her new brother in-law calls
himself Connor which suggests that he bought his papers from an
Irishman. It’s pretty nearly exactly what we expected.’

He sighed. ‘That’s the end of the trail as far as I’m concerned. A pity.
I enjoyed what there was of it. I’ll just stay to see you make your
contact. You wouldn’t care to take me . . .’

Mr Campion shook his head regretfully. ‘If he spotted you he’d recognise
an old enemy and he’d get me confused with the police, which is the last
thing I want. My chat with him has got to be friendly or it defeats its
own purpose. You did say your man thought he was a regular here?’

‘Most evenings, he said. They have a couple of doubles, a bit of a chat
with the governor and a few old cronies and go off early. It doesn’t
sound like Teague, I admit, but our chap is quite certain. He smokes
like a gaolbird, too—keeps the fag end turned into the palm of his
hand, which is a habit you find difficult to break after twenty years.’

The main saloon with its ornate Victorian carving, formal plastered
ceiling and gleaming cut glass panels was beginning to fill. The little
bar in which they stood was protected from prying eyes by a grille of
square decorative glass windows moving on swivels so that an order could
be given in complete privacy from the general public and the drink
pushed discreetly beneath the barrier. It provided a perfect screen for
an observer and presently Oates who had been keeping one eye on an
opening caught his companion’s arm.

‘They’ve just come in,’ he said. ‘The woman in the green scarf. That’s
Teague with her all right.’ He stood aside to let Campion move closer.
‘I think you’re in for a shock.’

The first impression of the man in the blue reefer suit which no longer
fitted him was that he was nearer seventy than sixty. He was standing
beside the bar and as the landlord produced two glasses he carried them
very slowly to one of the small tables against the upholstered wall
benches where a woman was waiting. A black beret hid most of his
forehead but the stiff hair beneath it was white and there was a trimmed
stubble around his mouth which was nearly a beard.

Steel-rimmed government spectacles with a strong magnification gave his
eyes the appearance of staring blankly and he blinked continually as if
he found the light too strong. Only the genuine flash of very white
teeth gave an indication that there had once been strength and
ruthlessness where only their ghosts remained.

The woman in the scarf beside him, a bravely unfading blonde with
unfashionably red lips, sat erect, emphasising her companion’s stoop,
defiantly protective, her eyes flickering cautiously over the customers.

Mr Campion shook himself.

‘Not a good advertisement for our prison system,’ he murmured. ‘But it
goes deeper than that, I think. He looks to me like a chap who’s given
up, retired, lost interest in life. He could also be afraid. The fact
that he’s torn up his ticket and changed his name could explain that, of
course, but he certainly looks like a non-starter to me. What do you
think?’

The ex-A.C. shrugged his shoulders.

‘A long term does that to men sometimes. No one’s proud of it, but it
happens. Go round and have your word with him. You know, I think I’ll
wait and keep an eye on you, just in case.’

Mr Campion left his companion and made an unobtrusive approach to the
table in the further bar. He drew up a chair apparently by chance with
the merest inference of an apology at the intrusion and sat for some
time sipping whisky without interest in the two who were facing him.
Finally he leaned across and spoke directly.

‘Skipper Connor?’

Suspicion chased by anger flashed across the woman’s face and she placed
a thin hand with blood red fingernails over the man’s wrist.

‘We don’t know you. What’s your game?’

Mr Campion turned to her. ‘It’s Mrs Medway, isn’t it? I’m not a
policeman, not even a friend from the past. I think you could describe
me as a negotiator—a man with a proposition. I’m prepared to pay for
the information I need. The sum I had in mind is very large.’

A sudden impish smile flickered across the man’s mouth and for an
instant it was possible to glimpse the charm and the force which had
withered. The spark faded as swiftly as it had appeared, leaving the
face cold and expressionless.

‘You’re wrong, you know. You’re dead wrong. I’ve nothing to sell.’

‘Leave him alone, you bastard,’ said the woman. ‘We don’t like your
sort. If you won’t go then we will.’ She stood up. ‘We’ll go now.’

‘Not for a minute.’ Mr Campion’s tone was unemotional. ‘Skipper, I’m
talking about the barge _Blossom_. One question. One answer. A small
fortune in any form you like and no strings attached.’

The man in the beret sighed. He was looking at Campion as if he saw him
from a distance.

‘The barge _Blossom_,’ he repeated slowly. ‘Do you know, mister, that
for twenty years people have been asking me about that God-forsaken
hulk? Men in nice suits, men in suits they’d only just changed into
because they wanted to pretend they weren’t officials, screws, con men,
big timers, water rats, the whole crew. I’ve seen the inside of every
interview room from the Moor or Parkhurst, from the Governor’s cabin to
a cell that looked and stank like the heads in a Greek tramp. Always the
same question.’

‘And always the same answer?’

‘Too bloody true, mister. Always the same answer. I never saw the
_Blossom_ in my life so far as I know and I certainly never sailed her.
Why do you think I’m hiding like a rat with a pack of yard dogs sniffing
after me? Because I never want to hear the blasted name again.’

‘You could name a price. No string attached.’

‘Not for a Chinese harem or the Crown Jewels. I don’t know a goddam
thing, and that’s for free. Ask Rita and she’ll tell you.’

Mr Campion turned towards her. ‘For ten thousand pounds?’ he murmured.
‘It’s a lot of money, I would have thought.’

The woman drew a deep breath, closing her eyes and leaning hard against
the shining leather.

‘He doesn’t know a thing,’ she murmured. ‘He’s just a damned old fool
without the price of a light to his name.’

Gradually her tension slackened and she put up a hand to primp her hair.
A smile which was sly and confiding crept across her mouth showing teeth
which were smeared with lipstick.

‘You’ve lost your bet, dear. They all have. Now sing for your supper and
get us a couple of drinks. Sid knows what we want.’

Mr Campion returned to the smaller bar feeling old and melancholy. The
elderly couples had disappeared and Oates was sitting in a corner by
himself, his deplorably grey felt hat on the table beside a glass of
over-bright port. He looked up as the thin man came in and the wrinkles
in his forehead were quizzical.

‘You did yourself no good? I was afraid of that. Teague’s got old and
tired like the rest of us. He’ll go no more aroving as the song says.
Did he tell you that?’

‘Just about. In almost as many words. Were you watching the
proceedings?’

‘I kept half an eye on you.’

‘And the other? Something is amusing you. Never laugh at a comrade’s
downfall. It’s a punishable offence in the Navy and considered very bad
taste even in the police force.’

Oates raised his glass and sipped it thoughtfully as if he was
considering whether to share a private joke.

‘I couldn’t resist it,’ he said at length. ‘It’s sheer habit I
suppose—idle curiosity now. But I recognised the landlord of this
joint. He’s Sid Lowenstein, a man who’s had a bit of wife trouble in his
time. You can hear him quarrelling with the present one now—she’s the
fifth—without straining your ears. Just as a matter of private interest
I eliminated a suspect in the case of the death of Hector Askew down at
Saltey.’

‘Teague?’

The older man nodded. ‘Teague of the silver bullet. Sid’s a very
reliable witness, especially in a matter which doesn’t concern him.
Askew was killed on a Saturday just over a fortnight ago. On that day
Teague, or the Skipper as he calls him, and his girl friend were here
just after half past five. He remembers it because he does a little
bookmaking on the side and they’d won quite a packet on the Kempton
meeting—twelve quid to be exact. It puts him out of the running. If you
want to know my opinion and I admit you haven’t asked for it, I’ll tell
you.’

‘Go ahead, by all means.’

‘It’s straightforward logic when you consider the facts. Someone who
knows Master Teague’s handwriting is forging his signature, copying his
style, just to lead you on a wild goose chase. It explains why that
mysterious wallet of his turned up so conveniently, for one thing. Has
that occurred to you?’

Mr Campion sighed. ‘It has now,’ he said. ‘In fact it’s been occurring
to me for some time. So don’t demobilise your forces just yet. There’s
some unfinished business to be handled if you’re still in the old war
horse mood. Teague may be a busted flush—he was pretty convincing—but
the woman knows something, or she thinks she does. Can you find out
_all_ about her, how she’s living, who pays the rent and who her
visitors are? She isn’t the fairy godmother type so someone has invested
money in keeping that poor old pirate out of the limelight.’

Ex-Assistant Commissioner Stanislaus Oates rose to his feet.

‘Just what I was thinking myself,’ he said. He looked about him. ‘You
know, Albert, I don’t like this place. It’s all very fine in its way,
but somehow it’s what I call sordid and the port is terrible. Come
along, my lad. Drive me to St James’s and I’ll give you a drink at my
Club.’


                           CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
                        THE PICTURE ON THE WALL

Mr Campion found his ex-chief L. C. Corkran in the office in Killowen
Square on the afternoon of Whit Monday. ‘The Department’, as he
invariably called it, does not recognise Bank Holidays, for its
connections are largely with countries who honour different feast days.

It was not a pleasant occasion for either man. When Morty had described
‘Elsie’ Corkran as commonplace close to but distinctive from a distance
he had been remarkably shrewd, for across a desk the face suggested an
officer who had served his country without achieving either seniority or
character, whereas at twenty paces his precise white moustache and
curling hair conveyed that he might be a doyen of diplomats or a Major
General of cavalry. His voice was scholarly, clipped and completely
colourless.

‘It comes to this,’ he said after hearing the recital of Campion’s
adventures. ‘We are back to square one. Teague is not in the running as
a lead and is quite prepared to die with his secret. One cannot, I
suppose, blame him for his attitude. The rest of the riff-raff, as you
depict them, seem to me to be small villains, stirring up trouble to see
if they can force or frighten someone else into making an informative
move. We appear to be in much the same position ourselves. Would it be
fair to say that?’

Mr Campion who was always acutely reminded of long impersonal sessions
in his tutor’s rooms at Cambridge on occasions when he visited Killowen
Square, took his time before replying.

‘Not quite,’ he said at last. ‘The opposition is still unpleasantly
active, but there are one or two untidy threads which may lead me out of
the labyrinth. It’s a question of time. How long have I got?’

‘Days, rather than weeks, if I may misquote an ill-advised politician.
Until dawn on Thursday to be precise. The transport problem can be
overcome by using diplomatic cover but that is the last—the final limit
when I can be sure of getting an aircraft and the right man as a
courier. Provisionally it will be at Southend Airport from Tuesday
night, awaiting instructions.’ He hesitated with the flicker of a
self-deprecatory smile. ‘I took that chance. I hope it is justified.’

‘You have news of Monique, then?’

The use of code names in the Department was designed for many reasons,
but partly to reduce the personal element to a minimum. But the woman
behind the old-fashioned pseudonym with its wartime echoes was nearer to
being a personal friend than either man was prepared to admit. Acute
danger was always conventionally discussed as a ‘temporary difficulty’
but the phrase did not conceal the terrifying anxiety it carried so
lightly. Corkran made a pretence of looking at a folder on his desk, as
if to refresh his memory.

‘Only indirectly. Our man thinks she will be moved from her present
captors at the end of the week. They are instructed to hand her over to
central authority and they’ve held out as long as they dare because
they’re not sure of themselves. They also want the prestige of arresting
her in case she talks. But a transfer to the big boys means new
interrogations, different methods. Knowing her, I doubt if they would be
successful, but we all have our breaking point. Unhappily, she has one
of those damnable capsule things and she might—just might—use it. The
difficulty, of course, is that a suicide like that always argues a
professional. If one link is exposed and broken then the rest are too
easy to identify. That could be rather unfortunate.’

He sighed. ‘You know all this. Have you any suggestions at my end?’

Mr Campion was shocked. The man across the desk rarely showed more
emotion than a don correcting a mathematical exercise, but now he was
pretending an indifference which was not convincing.

‘There is something you can do—a long shot, I admit, but we can’t
afford to neglect it. Can you send me a mine detector and a man who
knows how to work it?’

‘Of course.’ He had raised his eyebrows by the fraction of an inch at
the suggestion. ‘A mine detector? You have some particular area in mind,
I hope. That house you’re lodging in—The Hollies, isn’t it?—has been
gone over rather thoroughly by the police within the last fortnight
because of the man who was killed there. They used an apparatus of that
sort since there was some question of finding the offensive weapon. They
covered the grounds, too. I took particular note of it at the time and
sent for all the reports because the suggestion frightened me. It would
have cut across our plans awkwardly had anything been found. The
connection between the killing and the anonymous letters and the
inferred “keep off” warning was rather too obvious for my taste, but if
anything had been there it would have been found at that time. You have
a fresh zone to explore?’

‘I have an idea. The letters, by the way, were inspired by two other
seekers after truth, but the lesser snake is scotched. I’m afraid the
viper remains but he is probably more in the dark than we are. I can
have my mine detector? When?’

Corkran glanced at the wall clock behind his visitor’s head. ‘Tomorrow
morning will be the earliest, I’m afraid. You’ll be down at that
end-of-the-world hole to meet him?’

‘I’m going there now,’ said Mr Campion. ‘Goodbye, Elsie.’

A conventional smile of farewell crossed the face which was so nearly
handsome.

‘_Quod petis hic est_, I hope,’ he said. ‘Good God, Albert, how out of
date I sound. But it would be pleasant to retire knowing that one had
slipped a final fast one past the New Establishment. I do not love its
silly face.’

‘_Ora pro nobis_,’ said Mr Campion.

                            ★      ★      ★

The traffic of a Bank Holiday which was dizzy with sunshine had turned
the suburban streets into solid queues of frustration. Mr Campion sighed
with relief when he reached the horrific area of Victorian-Arabian
architecture which marked the start of the old road to Saltey. It was
not easy to remember, but once mastered, the route for all its twists
and deviations was uncannily free from obstruction. He drove slowly, a
sense of guilt sitting uneasily between his shoulder blades. To offer
false hope to a man in Corkran’s state of mind was unforgivable but the
gesture had to be made, because of the remote chance, the last stone
which had to be turned.

He quartered the problem from every direction, putting himself in the
place of each of the protagonists in turn. Finally he returned to
himself. There was something which he had missed, an idle thought which
had sneaked up on him when he was half awake and now refused to be
recalled.

An ancient joke suggested by the cluttered furniture of his bedroom at
The Hollies? The childhood memory of a great uncle booming dull
anecdotes over a dining table to which he was admitted on sufferance in
uncomfortable clothes? A faded picture framed in red velvet? An
overblown Duchess opening a Bazaar, conjured by flowered wallpaper?

There were two vehicles standing in the awkward circular drive when he
arrived at Saltey. Morty’s Lotus and the dilapidated scooter which
announced the presence of Mrs Weatherby.

She had discarded her working clothes for tailored tweeds which
suggested that she might have arrived to pay a conventional call and she
now sat upright in the big verandah chair facing the remains of another
of Mr Lugg’s delicate teas. Morty and Dido, a trifle exhausted by the
energy which vibrated from her, were patently relieved to see him.

‘Too bad you’ve missed the excitement,’ she proclaimed. ‘All hell’s been
popping whilst you’ve been away. You’ll simply blow a gasket, my dear
man, when you hear. These two good samaritans saved my life, or I don’t
know what I’d have done. The last phone box in the place has been
smashed by vandals, or that’s what the notice says. The Demon is
impossible and if it weren’t for the doctor I should never have got my
story off. I was going to drop in for a chin-wag in any case, but when I
saw the wires were connected to the house again, it was providential.’

‘Times are hard for us poor pigeons,’ said Mr Campion. ‘There hasn’t
been another fire, I hope?’

‘Nothing so ordinary. The trouble with a fire is that one can never get
a scoop—too many people see it from a distance and cash in simply by
ringing up the office from their bedrooms. They get a cut price and do
honest journalists out of a job. No, this was a hot tip from an old pal.
Mob’s Bowl has been raided by the police and all the tearaways and
rockers in the place have been rounded up and searched. The place has
been literally buzzing with blue-bottles and black marias. What about
that for a story?’

‘Any arrests?’

‘Several, I hope. It’s so difficult to distinguish between an arrest and
a detained-for-questioning, so we must all keep our fingers crossed. But
I do know that they’ve found a lot of purple hearts and what d’you call
’ems—black bombers?—all over the shop. I picked up a paper bag full of
them myself; found it lying on the grass by the churchyard. They’re just
like the pink cachous one used to eat as a child to take the smell of
gin away. The police simply swarmed all over the Bowl so I suppose the
smarter boys promptly threw them overboard when they scented trouble.
Damned unsporting, but what can one expect?’

Mr Campion sipped lukewarm tea reflectively. ‘You didn’t recognise any
familiar faces amongst the malefactors, I suppose?’

‘Note a hope. The trouble is, all these children look exactly the same
to me—like Chinese coolies, you know. Even their trousers seem to be
patched in the same places. They chant and scream about freedom and then
they wear a uniform which is as rigid as a subaltern’s at a Trooping.’
She stooped and brushed a shower of crumbs from her lap. ‘I must trickle
along now. If I drop in at the Cop-shop at Nine Ash they’ll give me the
gen about who’s really been kept in the cooler. I’ll see myself out.
Goodbye, doctor, it was tophole of you to lend me the blower. Cheero,
Morty.’

At the open glass door into the garden, she turned. ‘Better luck next
time, Mr Campion. Whenever you want a purple heart give me a buzz. What
a jolly good room for summer weather this is, doctor. I don’t blame you
for living in it. Kitty Kytie always did. She had no taste, poor
creature, but then none of that family ever had. Still, they made
themselves comfortable and that’s better than kicking yourself in the
pants.’

Her departure did not slacken the tension since Morty and Dido were
eager for news. Mr Campion was soothing but evasive. He sketched the
scene at the Cap and Bells but omitted any account of the morning’s
interview.

‘So James Teague is out of the picture,’ he finished. ‘His colleague, Mr
Target Burrows, is still advertising his presence rather curiously, so
for the moment any moonlight walks are out of the question. Tomorrow
looks like being a long and possibly tedious day, so I shall retire
early. Just at the moment I have some research to do in my bedroom.’

He left them abruptly.

The end of a Bank Holiday in the country is closely connected with the
local closing time of the inns. For the Londoners nothing remains but
the dull necessity to get home, to rest, to recuperate for the demands
of the working week. By half past eleven Saltey was as silent and remote
as if the city existed on a different continent. Morty had been
dismissed with a friendly coolness which forboded a sleepless night and
only the light in Dido’s window indicated that she too was still awake.

Campion descended the stairs silently to discover his aide brewing cocoa
in the kitchen. Mr Lugg, in trousers topped by a string vest, lifted a
steaming mug.

‘Care for a drop?’ he enquired. ‘It does wonders for your slumber graph
and stops you ’aving ’orrible dreams, whilst you’re snorin’ yerself
stupid.’

‘Not at the moment, if you’ll forgive me. You and I have a little
exploring to do. It may take some time so don’t drink too much of that
anaesthetic. If we have any luck what we’ll both need is a nice stiff
brandy.’

It was after two in the morning before Lugg made his final tour of the
house, locking the outer doors, slipping bolts and checking window
catches as he moved cautiously in the darkness.

In his bedroom Mr Campion undressed and sat for some time looking at the
telephone which had a direct line to Killowen Square.

Finally he picked it up and was answered by the melancholy voice of the
Duty Officer. He identified himself and was acknowledged.

‘Gadsden here. The dog watchman.’

‘What of the night? Elsie is no longer on the bridge, I take it?’

‘Not since six bells. Can I take a message? I have one of these taping
devices which I can play back so you needn’t go over every point twice.
I’ll stop you if I don’t understand.’

‘Very commendable. Will you please say to him that I would now like to
add to my mine detector a lot of surveying equipment, a theodolite and
surveyor’s level, tripods, poles and so forth and link measuring tapes.
I want to make an impressive show. Two good operators and two
drivers—four in all. I want tough boys who could look like council
employees. And two vans or trucks, decently anonymous. Today is Tuesday,
just. They’ll be away for a couple of nights or until dawn on Thursday
morning. Dawn on Thursday is a deadline which will be understood.’

‘It’s more than I do. Anything else?’

‘Yes. Half a dozen cases of champagne. That is not a joke, though it has
a certain irony. Krug ’59 would do very nicely. Got that?’

‘Every word of it. Having a party?’

‘You could put it that way. Tell Elsie that among other things—say
“_inter alia_” for his benefit—I am hoping to exorcise a ghost. Refer
him to the gospel according to St Matthew, Chapter 24 verse 28.’

The voice at the other end of the line sounded depressed.

‘The Bible is in the Code Room which is locked at this hour. Do I need
to look it up?’

‘Don’t bother,’ said Mr Campion. ‘Let him do his own research.’


                            CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
                           THE TETHERED GOAT

There is an especial quality about the first working day of a new week
in any village which suffers from urban visitors, a communal sigh which
whispers ‘Now we are ourselves again’. On Tuesday morning in Mob’s Bowl
this spirit of relief from siege was abroad. Greetings at chance
encounters were warm, the baker did excellent business in cakes and
gossip and the Salt Street Stores which sold everything from lobster
pots to synthetic cheese and backache pills was comfortably crowded.

Even the sprinkling of early holidaymakers taking the sun outside their
bright tents and caravans seemed to relish the sensation of superiority
over the ephemeral London starlings whose paper and carton refuse still
scampered aimlessly up and down the gutters.

Morty alone found no satisfaction in the occasion. Dido had agreed to
dine with him in Nine Ash but had made it clear that she intended
putting The Hollies in order by purchasing new household equipment and
that this task was not to be shared. The idea that she intended to keep
the house filled him with misgivings. He was in no mood for his own work
and by eleven he wandered unconsoled and purposeless towards the
blackened ruins of the burnt out shed.

The arrival of two grey green 15 cwt. vans, whose anonymity suggested
officialdom in some workaday form, in front of The Demon offered an
excuse and he watched with rising curiosity. Three young men emerged,
large cheerful youths in denims, in charge of a tow-haired leader whose
jacket was so patched and trimmed with leather that it could well have
been home made. Having conferred casually with his staff he left them to
unload a variety of equipment and made his way towards the single stump
which marked where a lychgate had stood at the entrance to the
churchyard. He was carrying a small board to which papers were clipped
and he referred to them from time to time, taking measured paces,
halting and retracing his steps.

Finally he called to his assistants.

‘O.K. Wonderboy. Starting from here. Bring us the poles and the number
four quad.’

Morty knew very little of the mysteries of surveying but the opportunity
to waste time by watching men at work was not to be resisted. He
strolled across, accompanied now by various idlers equally intent on
enjoying the prospect. The young men drove black and white metal poles
into the ground, measured distances and calculated angles with a
theodolite. They were in high spirits, shouting incomprehensible slang
phrases as they worked but their purpose remained obscure. After a
conference they concentrated their attention on the furthest corner of
the enclosure where coarse grass and cowparsley concealed everything but
the tallest headstones. A mine detector looking remarkably like a vacuum
cleaner was carried from one of the vans and an area marked out by pegs
and tape was covered inch by inch. It provided a mystery in which none
but the initiated could share.

The deep familiar voice of the landlord of The Demon made Morty turn
sharply to find the old man leaning on an oblong stone tomb immediately
behind him.

‘That is the Wishart section of God’s acre which is being marked and
explored. My grandfather rested his bones there in 1870 at his own
request next to Victoria Ann, his first wife who was childless. He was
the last of us to find peace in this ground before it was closed. My
grandmother, a Woodrose, who bore him two sons and three daughters lies
solitary in the earth of St Michael’s at Forty Angels. I often wondered
if she resented it. What do you suppose those young men are up to?’

Morty shrugged his shoulders. ‘You could always ask them, of course.’

‘I took that step. They are making an official survey which, it was
pointed out, was none of my business. They appear to be using a quantity
of expensive government equipment so they must have some _locus standi_.
What is your opinion?’

‘I’d guess they were looking for the same thing as your visitor of
Saturday night. Your buddy Jonah had callers not long ago, or so I’m
told. You should get together on the quiz programme.’

The poet was discomforted. He had aged in the past week, and the sudden
years had exposed the weakness of his face without bringing dignity.

‘The days of collaboration are over,’ he said. ‘You have never been
blackmailed, I suppose, Mr Kelsey? If you had, you might be more
compassionate, even if you have been affronted at second hand. But when
the shadow lifts it is like the sun coming up on a soft day. One
believes in everlasting mercy.’

He turned abruptly and strode off towards the inn. Morty, watching him
as he picked his way between tents and caravans, found the retreating
back infinitely depressing. As he disappeared into the yard of The Demon
he became aware of a newcomer to the collection of idlers by the broken
gate. It was Mr Campion.

For a reason which he could not analyse an intense irritation seized the
younger man and for some minutes he made no move to join the slim
spectacled figure behind the main group. Finally curiosity overcame him
and he strolled across.

‘What the hell goes on here?’

The thin man continued to survey the workers in the churchyard. They
were standing with their heads together, poring over calculations on the
tow-headed youth’s board. There was obviously some technical
disagreement between them which could only be settled by a slight change
in the area they were quartering.

‘Ducdame. Ducdame,’ said Mr Campion at last.

‘I don’t get it.’

‘A Greek invocation to call fools into a circle, according to the
melancholy Jacques. I hope the old English pastime is not understood in
these parts. Tell me how many acquaintances of yours there are in the
audience. For your information, Mr Jonah Woodrose who was with us
briefly has just departed, leaving his foreman behind as an observer.
Who else?’

Morty looked about him. ‘Wishart was here for a bit. There’s an odd
little bird in a shiny blue suit called Hamilton Dashwood standing on
your left, beyond the green tent. He’s only here at weekends as a rule.
Constable Simmonds has just arrived on his bicycle. The two men in
sweaters row fresh vegetables out to the ships at anchor and do a bit of
fishing. The fat dame in the apron is supposed to have been a girl
friend of Teague’s in the days gone by, but a lot of the ladies have
that reputation. The semi-dwarf is called Alan Sullivan. The tall guy in
the dark glasses is one of the tearaway lot. They call him Moo Moo, the
Dog-Faced Boy and God knows why. I thought he’d gone off with the rest
of them and he’s certainly no friend of mine. He’s the guy I put on his
back in The Demon. That’s the lot and you still haven’t answered my
question.’

Mr Campion took him by the arm. ‘Time for a quiet stroll before lunch,’
he murmured. ‘These technical birds are here at my request and if you
want a share in the fun and games you must play along with me. I am
hoping to exorcise the Demon of Mob’s Bowl once and for all. Mossy Ling
said he saw a ghost, but my private bet is that the ghost was very
substantial and when the old man looked like saying too much he was
literally shaken to death. I think, in fact, that he recognised
somebody. It wouldn’t take much to kill anyone in his condition and no
doctor would be any wiser. It’s not my business to say who killed Hector
Askew, but I’d prefer it if there weren’t any more silver bullets flying
around. Even stones flung at the weathercock are disturbing to the
peace.’

‘You’re still being goddam mysterious. Do you get a kick out of it?’

They were beyond the cottages now and the narrow strip of road to Forty
Angels twisted ahead of them. Mr Campion turned aside so that he could
lean over a gate and survey the inland hamlet.

‘My dear chap,’ he said. ‘I am only vague because I should hate to be
wrong. If you want a share in the proceedings you’ll be more than
welcome but it’s fair to say that they may be rather protracted and
unpleasant, nine parts boredom to one part terror—a very usual formula.
You might catch nothing more than a common cold.’

‘Include me in. What about Dido?’

Mr Campion sighed. ‘I have failed in my efforts to persuade my hostess
to get back to London,’ he admitted. ‘But at least she has agreed to
keep out of danger. I hope she intends to keep her word. If you care to
risk your own skin, there is a place for you in the ranks of the brave.’

‘Just what are you up to?’

‘You could say I am tethering a goat in the hope of enticing a dangerous
animal. Tomorrow afternoon the hunt will shift to the copse beside The
Hollies. The boys with their paraphernalia will do some preliminary
research there. Then they’ll call it a day and pack up, leaving a clear
field. After that, because you know the whole terrain you could be very
useful.’

He gave precise instructions.

                            ★      ★      ★

Sergeant Throstle was not the happiest of men. He had worked until he
was exhausted, missed a long promised day at Lords watching his
favourite County play Middlesex and had achieved very little beyond a
mass of detail about the private lives of a dozen women with
peccadilloes to conceal who had not hesitated to show resentment at the
intrusion. He sat in Inspector Branch’s office and envied the local man
his new uncluttered desk and his impending retirement.

‘A powerful lot of trouble adding up to a gale of wind that wouldn’t
blow a paper boat across a bath.’ The old man’s summing up was
cheerfully delivered but it did not make pleasant hearing. ‘Ain’t you
got nothing else, boy?’

‘Precious little. There are two items of interest but I don’t see where
they lead. Old Miss Kytie knew Teague quite well. He was some sort of
pet of hers.’

Branch shook his head: he was not impressed. ‘I don’t doubt it. A
wonderful lot of women fancied Jim Teague one way or another. None of
them, that old girl included, could resist a rogue with a smooth tongue
and a bit of real devil in him. Maybe she mended his socks and maybe she
did it to spite the vicar or put her friends’ noses out of joint. Maybe
he brought her a bottle or two when he pulled off a smart trick. You
could say the same of forty women up and down the coast.’

Throstle frowned. ‘Back to Askew then. He seems to have been disliked by
a lot of people, respectable and otherwise. But not deeply hated. As I
see him he was a very minor sort of blackguard living under his father’s
thumb, which explains why he wasn’t married. His girl friends seem to
have left him of their own accord and without regrets as far as I can
discover. The other item of interest is that he too knew Teague, and
Burrows as well, come to that.’

‘Couldn’t have been more than a baby, could he? Do you reckon anything
to it?’

‘Hector Askew was thirty-eight this year. Looked a lot younger, so I’m
told. He had an adventure of sorts with them in the summer before the
war, when he was about nine years old. He went for a trip with them in
an old sea going lugger they owned. The engine broke down when they were
half way to Dieppe and they went missing for a couple of days. I don’t
know if it means anything.’

Branch chuckled reminiscently. ‘That old hulk. A thirty-five foot gaff
rigged cutter doing six or seven knots. The _Saltey Siren_ she used to
be called. Got around to a lot of highly remarkable places, if I
remember aright. But I doubt those two would be up to anything special
with a bit of a boy on board. Still, it might be a pointer.’

‘Teague killed a man once because he was recognised. It could have
happened again. If Askew spotted either of those two hanging round The
Hollies he’d very likely have known who they were. That’s how my mind’s
running.’

‘Back to the pirates, eh? Well now, it so happens I can show you a
properly strange little masterpiece.’

Inspector Branch slid open a drawer and produced a booklet which he
pushed across the table. ‘You recall mentioning an old friend, name of
Dashwood? I took the trouble to look him over again since you brought
him to mind. He works for Belcher’s Novelties of Ipswich and gets around
quite a bit to dance halls, piers, pleasure arcades and the like. The
boys are giving him a little attention but I thought perhaps I’d keep a
tab on him myself. This is his firm’s catalogue. Just you run your eye
over it, mister, there’s a mint of good reading there.’

Throstle complied. Belcher’s Novelties covered a wide range of aids to
public and private amusements from streamers, crackers, whistles, false
noses and conjuring tricks to seaside souvenirs and dribble glasses.
Small illustrations made the pages as crowded as an Edwardian draper’s
shop.

A cross in red pencil caught his eye and he began to read aloud:

    ‘_Hiroshima Demon Masks. The very latest, directly imported from
    Japan. Surprise your friends with this unique and humorous
    spine-chiller. Trimmed with genuine goat’s hair. A real wham for
    any party._’

‘Recognise it?’

Throstle snorted. ‘So that’s where they came from. A very tasteful item
as you say. It may help the Narcotics boys in some way but I don’t see
that it does us much good. Dashwood could be a pedlar—he’d have plenty
of opportunity and a very good cover story—but it doesn’t quite relate
him to Hector Askew. Or have I missed something?’

‘You have, you know. Here, give me the book.’

The old man retrieved the list, flicked through the pages and pressed
one open with a heavy thumb. Again a scarlet cross pointed the way.

    ‘_The Gresham Super-Improved Catapult. In heavy all-aluminium
    frame with leather pocket and new (patent applied for) sighting
    adjuster. Powerful square-cut heavy duty rubber cord gives great
    range and accuracy. Not a toy but a true sportsman’s instrument.
    Kills birds, vermin, etc. at long range._’

‘A true sportsman’s instrument, Mr Throstle. That’s what it says. Now I
wouldn’t know about that, but it does so happen that I’ve got one of
these little old play things right here in this office and it might just
give you an idea. An offensive weapon we called it when we took it off a
boy who was doing a wonderfully mischievous bit of damage to windows in
the Nine Ash Primary. Seeing it in that list and remembering the trouble
we had gave me a sort of an idea.’

He re-opened the drawer and produced a modern and vicious version of the
ancient device. The Y-fork was of metal and the leather centre-piece,
shaped to hold the missile, had a flange which could be gripped so that
aiming it became remarkably simple. The window of the office faced into
the yard and the old man opened it wide.

‘I’ve been hankering to do this all day,’ he admitted. ‘Picked up a
couple or three likely stones out of my garden this morning in case you
dropped by.’ He fitted a pebble carefully into the socket and took aim
towards the opposite roof. ‘We don’t run to a weathercock so a
chimneypot will have to do duty.’

The clang of stone on metal cowling announced a direct hit and Branch
closed the window guiltily. ‘Makes you think, doesn’t it?’ he said and
laughed so that the years dropped away from him. ‘Powerful smart, I call
that. Target couldn’t have done better himself.’

Throstle took the weapon from the old man and stretched the thick black
rubber tentatively.

‘Ought to have seen that one coming,’ he said at last and swore gently
to himself. ‘A ruddy catapult—a toy a child could use. Anyone could
have been scaring the pants off Saltey by this trick—Dashwood or any
man, woman, or child in the place. Bang goes Target Burrows.’

The Inspector was still laughing. ‘You don’t want to be so sure of that.
I doubt Target’s good eye would be so clear now as it was twenty odd
years back. But he was a smart old boy in some ways and up to any trick
he could lay his hands on. He could have bought one of these things for
himself if he’d a mind to. Had you thought of that now?’

                            ★      ★      ★

Morty reached the first point in his journey after a three mile detour.
At eleven o’clock on Wednesday night he had retired to his bedroom at
The Demon, keeping his lamp burning for another half hour in case his
movements were attracting attention. Then he escaped from the silent inn
into a night that was chilly and dark, for the moon was hidden behind
the banks of low cloud and the scurrying wind coming in from the sea
carried a threat of rain in the salt.

He was wearing a dark green pullover with his most sombre trousers and
carrying a long torch more for protection than use. He moved quietly
along the sea wall beyond the Bowl and then struck inland picking his
way cautiously beside wide ditches where water sucked and reeds hissed
and rustled together.

A dog at Cheffin’s Farm heard him over a distance of three fields and
made a surly complaint about the trespasser but no light appeared in the
house. Still by way of fields he passed the unwelcoming bulk of barns
and outbuildings which marked the corner of the road into Saltey.
Presently he arrived at the hump backed bridge which crossed the narrow
Rattey river before it finally emerged above the Bowl. This was his
turning point and here he was to wait, if necessary until dawn.

An open fronted cart shed whose pantiled roof was dangerously decayed
provided a little shelter and he sat for some time listening to the
faint lap of the stream punctured by the hunting call of brown owls in
the elms which bordered the road.

In the half hour before one in the morning, two cars passed him heading
for Firestone, their headlights blazing strange traceries through the
gaps in the weatherboarding, but a third beam suddenly faded as it
approached, though an engine continued to purr. The car halted on the
road within a few yards of him and above the throb he heard the click of
a gate which creaked as it swung back and scuffed the ground in its
path. A door closed and the car rustled slowly into the field.

Morty followed cautiously through the opening, judging his distance by
his ears. The grass track over the water meadows followed the turns of
the river and three more gates were opened before the engine spluttered
into silence. He knew now that the car had two occupants for both doors
opened and closed. Footsteps in long grass whispered for a moment and
were swallowed into the night.

To his right the ground rose slightly. Beyond this field lay the copse
which marked the boundary of The Hollies property: an overgrown thicket
where limes, chestnuts and thorns fought dourly for survival. He reached
the outlying bushes and paused to listen.

Ahead of him a twig cracked and another. He was closer than he had
guessed, but the quarry was still moving. A sapling whipped him sharply
across the face and for a moment he floundered nearly off balance.
Brambles clawed at his ankles: a terrified rabbit darted between his
feet and was gone.

Above his head there was a sudden clatter of wings as a pair of ring
doves wheeled away into the leaden sky and he took advantage of the
commotion to get clear of his entanglements and edge his way towards a
track which he knew must lie very near. There was a clearing beyond him
centring on a Victorian summerhouse, a Gothic-rustic affair of split
logs with stained glass windows and a conical roof and he crept towards
it feeling his way, pace by pace, to defeat the traitorous undergrowth.

Ahead the footsteps continued, less cautious and more purposeful now. He
was very close, too close for safety and he waited to give them time to
reach the clearing. A half fallen branch barred his way and he stepped
crabwise towards the trunk of the tree to avoid the obstacle.

For a minute he waited, straining his ears and eyes. The copse had
settled into silence. Again a snapping twig ahead of him brought a
respite. He took a long pace, recovered his balance and halted in mid
stride. Someone, an arm’s length from him, was leaning against the tree.

Almost in the same second he knew that it was Dido. The uncomplicated
flower scent which she used so sparingly came clearly into his nostrils
betraying her as vividly as if she had spoken. He had only to put out
his hand to touch her.

The thought that to do so might make her cry out held him back; even a
whisper could bring its terror. He waited scarcely breathing. A pencil
of light flickered in the clearing, distorting shapes, shadows and
silhouettes, bringing into sudden brightness a meaningless glimpse which
was so vivid that it lingered on the retina as his eyes blinked.

Dido stiffened and began to walk steadily towards the blackness where
the gleam had been. Following her, he began to count the paces. Seven,
eight, nine, ten.

A torch in her hand sprang to life to show two faceless black figures
frozen for a second by the glare.

‘What are you doing on my property?’ said Doctor Jones. ‘I don’t like
trespassers.’

The moment of hesitation passed. The taller of the two bounded beyond
the circle of light and crashed wildly into the undergrowth, but the
other turned slowly, almost imperceptibly and looked straight into the
beam, so that the distortion of features covered by a silk stocking was
grotesquely emphasised.

A knife glinted like a diamond as the figure crouched, gathered strength
and leapt forward bearing Dido to the ground.

Morty flung himself at the creature, grasping wildly at what ever his
fingers touched. Suddenly there were lights from four directions, the
rush of feet, a young excited voice and the struggle was over.

Dido held out a hand to Morty and he pulled her gently to her feet.

‘I—I’m all right,’ she said. ‘Just a bit winded. What a melodramatic
lot you are.’ She swayed uncertainly and Morty’s arm tightened about her
waist. ‘I am all right—really I am. No cuts or broken bones. Now, who
or what is this thing on the ground?’

The figure had not moved since the tussle had ended. It lay
spreadeagled, face downwards, pinned out by a tow-headed young man in a
disreputable jacket. He picked himself up without releasing his grip,
dragging his capture with him.

Mr Campion emerged quietly from the ring of torches and taking hold of
the silken mask slipped it swiftly over the dark head.

‘Meet Miss Doll Jensen,’ he said. ‘Her other claim to fame is that she
is the daughter of James Teague.’


                            CHAPTER NINETEEN
                           DEATH OF A LEGEND

A series of crashes in the undergrowth followed by a cheerful shout in a
strong Cockney accent made the group in the clearing turn their heads.

‘Charlee-ee . . . Got him.’

The tow-haired youth who had led the party of surveyors continued his
grip on the girl and lifted his voice in answer.

‘Don’t make such a row about it. People sleep here, you know.’ To
Campion he said: ‘Silly bastard. That’s Wonderboy—I told him to keep
his trap shut. Does it matter now?’

The thin man did not reply for a moment but focused the beam of his
torch so that it made a tunnel of bright green along twenty yards of the
track. At the far end two figures in denims emerged grasping a third
between them, a black leather clad bundle limp as a roll of carpet. They
halted as the light caught them and Mr Campion turned to Lugg who had
been standing behind him.

‘Nip down and see what they’ve got. If it’s the one called Moo Moo, just
see him off the premises.’

‘Letting ’im off the ’ook, are you? Thousands wouldn’t.’

‘He’s just a stooge and the lady had several more young things like him
who do little services for her. Charlie, would you mind running your
hands over Miss Jensen in case she is carrying a gun as well as a pocket
knife?’

For the first time the girl flared into life.

‘I’ve got no bloody gun. Keep your lousy hands off me.’

Charlie’s delighted grin suggested he had enjoyed himself. ‘I frisked
her just now. Just a flick knife and a torch. That’s the lot, isn’t it
darling? What shall we do with her?’

‘In that case you can relax your grip. She won’t run away because we
have something she particularly wants to see.’ Mr Campion’s tone was as
conversational as an invitation to a tea party. ‘Perhaps we should go
into the house. It’s a trifle chilly out here.’

The garden room at The Hollies had undergone a remarkable change since
Morty had last seen it. The two glass walls had been covered with dusty
black curtain material stretched over wooden frames, evidently a
survival of wartime blackout arrangements, and shades which he had not
noticed before had been drawn to ensure that no light escaped from the
roof. He led Dido to the big cane chair and sat on its broad arm, his
right hand still caressing her shoulder. In the more normal lighting he
could see Doll Jensen’s face very white beneath the mop of tight coarse
curls. She was breathing rapidly, her teeth clenched as if to prevent
them from chattering. She hesitated in the doorway, her eyes wide with
excitement and curiosity, took in the scene and walked deliberately to a
corner where a slatted bench for potted plants offered a seat. She sat
very still, her head bowed and her hands gripping the wooden edge.

Mr Campion leaned over a ladderback chair at the head of the table,
awaiting the return of the rest of the party. In the minute of stilted
silence the senior surveyor pulled out a packet of cigarettes, offered
them without success and finally lit one for himself.

When the group was complete Mr Campion addressed himself directly to the
four young men who were staring at the girl on the bench with
uninhibited curiosity.

‘You haven’t met our guest before, so it might be as well to put you in
the picture. I doubt if she’ll confirm the details for us and one or two
of them only came in this afternoon. If she takes my advice she won’t
bother with protests because nothing she can say now is any business of
ours.

‘Her full name is Dorothy Marilyn Jensen. Her mother was Jane Felgate
who was born just up the road and who married a Norwegian sailor before
the war. He was killed in 1942. There’s not much doubt about who her
real father is for the excellent reason that she takes after him in more
ways than one and is proud of the fact. The physical likeness is very
strong.

‘An old man called Mossy Ling spotted it and was silly enough to say
he’d seen a ghost. She frightened him to death, in my opinion. Hector
Askew probably let on that he recognised the likeness when he caught her
exploring in this house.’

Morty leaned forward. ‘Are you saying that this . . . that Doll . . .
killed Askew?’

The girl in the corner raised her head to Campion in a long straight
glare of speculative venom. When she turned to Morty her voice became
urgent and intimate. ‘It’s a bloody silly lie. You know it’s not
true—it couldn’t be. The first time I ever clapped eyes on you was when
you were coming down here with your godalmighty girl friend—just as I
was. I ran into all that glass only just ahead of you. You know that.
You’ll tell them if you’ve got the guts of a louse. The police aren’t
bloody fools—they know I couldn’t have done it. You’re listening to a
raving nut who fancies himself as some sort of private dick. Be your
age. He’s round the bend!’

Mr Campion intervened. ‘Fortunately for us all I don’t have to prove my
theory about her guilt. But this afternoon I performed an experiment for
my private satisfaction. I walked from here through the copse and along
the meadows to the bridge by the same route that the trespassers used
tonight and drove from there to the corner by Ponder’s Farm. It took
twenty minutes. I allowed myself another twenty in which to smash
bottles, had I been in the mood for it. A total of forty minutes and it
could have been done in under half an hour. I’m afraid Miss Jensen’s
alibi doesn’t exist.’

The girl was still prepared to fight. She opened her mouth as if to
speak but waited, angry and watchful.

‘Dislike of being recognised runs in the family. Jonah Woodrose found
that out, but he has a guilty conscience about smuggling so it was
easier to stop him talking.

‘There is a very good reason for her to be sensitive on the subject and
it goes back a very long way. I think Miss Jensen was brought up on a
legend, the legend of James Teague, the great lover, the great pirate,
the hero who was her true father. There are two nights in his final
adventure which are not accounted for. I think he spent them in Harwich
with Jane Felgate and her daughter who must have been about a year old.
He probably gave a pretty colourful but not necessarily truthful account
of his exploits and I expect he boasted of his adventures, implying that
he had hidden a fortune somewhere in Saltey and told them that when the
storm blew over they would all be richer than Croesus. Unfortunately for
them he was caught.

‘I think that mother and daughter talked and dreamed about that boast to
the exclusion of everything else in the world. They moved from town to
town over the years so that they could never be traced, waiting for the
great moment when their hero was free.

‘In the mean time a lot of people suspected that Teague had come ashore
from the barge _Blossom_ that night and had hidden something in
Saltey—possibly at The Hollies. Jonah Woodrose and Wishart for example.

‘The only person who refused to share in the dream was Teague himself,
once he was arrested. Every sort of pressure was put upon him but he
never spoke.

‘Jane Felgate died but her daughter watched and waited. She refused to
believe that her father would keep his secret once he was free. She
arranged for him to disappear as soon as he came out and paid for his
board with a woman called Medway, who is the mother’s half-sister, by
the way.’

The girl was now crouching on the bench so that only the swarthy curls
at the nape of her neck were visible. Again she flung up her head as if
she were about to protest but her breath caught in her throat and no
words came.

Mr Campion’s diffident murmur continued.

‘I think I should explain that Miss Jensen is not short of money. How
her income is made is not my business but I suspect that the police are
investigating it rather carefully and her time is running short. A man
called Dashwood has been arrested and they are looking for the woman he
worked with. When they discover, as they will, who she is, they are
bound to make other deductions about Askew’s death. But what matters to
us now is the sequence of events.

‘Miss Kytie’s death and her unexpected bequest to Dido upset everyone’s
calculations. It seems she was a mischievous old thing and it’s on the
cards that she may have had a shrewd suspicion that something had been
hidden at The Hollies. She had a curious sort of aunt-and-nephew
relationship with Teague. He did odd jobs for her and gave her presents.
In return she may have turned a blind eye to any use he made of the
house when she left it untenanted. It might—just might—explain why she
decided to put everyone’s nose out of joint and leave the place to a
stranger. Villagers have very long memories and I think half the
population of Saltey was waiting for her to die so that the house could
be forced to give up its secret—if it had one.’

He turned to Dido.

‘This is where you came into the picture. When the news about the will
got around, Jonah Woodrose had the idea of scaring you off by getting
Wishart to write those letters, hoping you’d sell out without a fight
and he could get his hands on the property.

‘Miss Jensen also began to take an interest in the new owner. She even
got herself a part-time job in the Swallow Café so that she could keep
an eye on your movements. Do you recognise her, now?’

Dido surveyed her coldly.

‘Ye-es,’ she said at last. ‘I do now. She was a rotten waitress. I often
wondered why she never smiled and generally kept her back to me. How did
you find that out?’

‘I didn’t,’ said Mr Campion, modestly. ‘It was simply a logical guess.
The woman who ran the café was talking about useless part-timers when I
went there.

‘The real upset to her plans came when Teague was released. This must
have been quite a shock. Remember, she’d never seen him except possibly
in an old photograph. I think they were in touch with each other in a
cautious furtive way after her mother died, but she had no idea of what
he was really like. Instead of a hero there was nothing but a broken,
frightened old man, a poor chap who wanted only peace and quiet—no more
secrets, no more adventures.

‘Miss Jensen had to do some sharp re-thinking. She may have been baulked
for a little, but she certainly wasn’t stupid.

‘Her idea, in fact, was remarkably ingenious. Both Teague and Burrows
had what you might call trade marks which were well known here in
Saltey—a silver bullet, a trick with a stone and a patched eye. She set
out very successfully to establish a reign of terror by suggesting that
they were both back and looking for trouble. By conjuring up the
impression that they were around she drew everyone’s attention in the
wrong direction. She knew her father would be suspected, but even if he
were winkled out of his hiding place he would have no difficulty in
proving his innocence.

‘In the meantime he provided the perfect bogey man to scare anyone who
knew more than was good for him into making a move. She started the
trail by leaving his pocket book at the café to make sure that the
police got the message. She had a lot of willing help of course, from
her tearaway friends though I very much doubt if they knew quite how
they were being used, even when they were beating up Jonah and the
unfortunate man Sibling.’

He turned to Morty. ‘The chap who raised a bruise on your head—Moo Moo,
I expect—was probably acting without instructions, paying off a score
on his own behalf. But it all helped the illusion. Burrows got the
credit for that one.

‘This whole exercise failed because nobody in fact had very much to
conceal. Like Miss Jensen they were waiting for a cat who refused to
jump. That didn’t deter the lady: she and her friends raised and smashed
every smugglers’ hideaway in the place and broke into all the secret
stores and bolt holes she’d learned about from her mother’s knee.

‘Only The Hollies remained. On the short list now, and when our boys
began to turn their surveying instruments on to the grounds she couldn’t
resist coming back for a final search. Not the neatest of traps,
perhaps, but it worked.’

Morty straightened his back.

‘You took a chance,’ he said. ‘Dido might have been hurt.’

‘She wasn’t part of the plan.’ Mr Campion was apologetic. ‘I’m afraid
she wasn’t deceived by our apparently off-handed behaviour. She made her
own investigations.’

Dido looked up and for the first time placed a hand over Morty’s.

‘It doesn’t matter any longer,’ she said. ‘The important thing is the
reason for all this trouble. Albert, do you know the answer?’

He paused before replying as if he was re-considering a difficult
decision.

‘Yes,’ he said, finally. ‘Yes, I do. The question is really one for Miss
Jensen and she may not like the truth when she sees it.’

He turned to the girl. ‘You’ve come a long way to satisfy your
curiosity. It might be wiser, even now, to leave well alone. You could
walk right out of this room and as far as we are concerned no one will
follow you.’

She shook her head without looking up. Her hands remained clenched, the
knuckles white with tension. It was some time before she answered,
speaking quietly and slowly, almost to herself.

‘Anything hidden here belongs to my father. He fought for it. He did
time for it. He’s paid for it. It’s nothing to do with anybody else.
It’s his.’

Mr Campion sighed and pulled back the chair he had been leaning on.

‘As you wish,’ he said, wearily. ‘In a way it does belong to your
father. Charlie, will you keep an eye on the lady? I want to move the
table first.’

Morty jumped to his feet, pulling Dido after him. ‘Do you mean to say
it’s here—right under our feet?’

‘Right under our feet. It’s as simple as that.’

A dusty space was cleared in the centre of the room. Beneath the
threadbare Turkey carpet there was a large rectangular cast iron grid
which fitted flush with the yellow and red tiles of the floor. Its
fellows could be found in the aisle of any Victorian church.

Lugg had provided himself with a small crowbar and with the aid of one
of the surveyors he prised the diamond patterned screen from its socket.
The cavity beneath contained two heavy, cast iron pipes, running from
end to end, a part of the heating arrangements for the conservatory.

‘Ingenious,’ said Mr Campion. ‘You could pass a mine detector over this
without discovering anything remarkable though I doubt if James Teague
thought of that one. Even the police had it up when they were looking
for a gun. Evidently there wasn’t a gardener or plumber in the search
party, which is just as well.’

Dido peered into the cavity.

‘What did they miss?’

‘The real pipes don’t come this way at all. They run round the walls and
are heated by a stove on the other side of the wall. This was James
Teague’s private store cupboard built out of what used to be a pool for
watering flowers. There is an old photograph of it on my bedroom wall
showing a draining table above it covered with prize begonias. These
pipes are just intelligent camouflage fixed to a false floor. Even the
hooks to lift the whole thing out have been standing in a corner for
twenty years.’

He looked around him.

‘This is the moment of truth.’

Morty and Dido stood very close to each other, their arms linked. Slowly
Lugg and his helper lifted the pipes and the floor beneath them in one
piece until they were level with the tiles. Slowly they dragged the
burden to one side exposing a deeper cavity flanked by grey concrete
walls.

The hanging lamp shone directly upon the thing that lay in the pit: a
sprawling wreck, half skeleton, half mummy which had once been a man.
Wisps of rotting blue clothing clung to the bones and heavy seaboots
covered the feet but the skull from which the jaw still hung was
parchment yellow and naked.

The shocking quality of the sight was emphasised by the reactions of
everyone in the room. Death had come violently and suddenly to this
stranger, blotting him out like a fly on a windscreen. It did not matter
if he had died yesterday or lain there for a century: the impact of
sudden irrevocable finality filled the room. The young men looked down,
absorbed the shock, looked away, then returned to stare curiously. Morty
held Dido back, his arm about her shoulder. Mr Campion alone watched
Doll Jensen, his eyes cold and speculative.

Her voice, strangled to a whisper broke the petrifying silence.

‘Christ,’ she muttered. ‘He’s looking at me. He’s not dead.’

Mr Campion shook his head. ‘I’m afraid he’s very dead indeed. You are
looking at the body of Thomas Alfred Burrows and somewhere in his rib
cage you’ll no doubt find a silver bullet. He was wearing his glass eye
when he was killed. His trademark has outlived his body.’

The girl stepped closer to bend over the pit. The vivid blue eyeball
stared back from its socket giving the bones an expression of suspended
life, a leering secretive grimace which changed oddly to simple
astonishment as the light caught it. She straightened herself and began
to laugh in a high pitched, mirthless wail which was more frightening
than the thing beneath her feet.

Dido considered her coldly for a moment and then, releasing Morty’s arm
she moved round the cavity. Two smart slaps across the face with a left
and a right, rocked the dark curls backwards and silenced the screams.
Charlie, standing behind Doll, caught her by the shoulders and shook
her.

‘That’s enough of that. Here, sit down. Put your head between your legs,
if you feel faint.’

He lifted her off her feet, dropped her on to a chair and tried to bend
her forward. She thrust him away and began to sob quietly and
uncontrollably, hugging herself and weaving her body from side to side.

Dido eyed her professionally but without pity.

‘There’s very little wrong with her. She’s had a shock—haven’t we
all?—but she’s as tough as nails. The question is, what do we do with
her?’

‘The answer to that,’ said Mr Campion, ‘is simple and uncharitable. We
do nothing. We’re none of us policemen. A good counsel could probably
demolish my theories even if they resulted in a charge. My
responsibilities here are to the living, to the future.’

The sobbing had stopped and as he turned to the girl she raised a
blotched white face, streaked with mascara. She was still frightened,
still choked with shock, but an instinct for self preservation flickered
in her eyes.

‘I think you must go now. I think you must go right away—indeed you
would be remarkably foolish if you ever tried to come back. I hope you
understand that?’

She nodded almost imperceptibly, glancing from one face to the next,
making certain that he spoke for them all.

‘What about that—that thing?’

Campion waited before answering.

‘That thing, as you call it, is your father’s secret. As far as you are
concerned it must stay that way. You should be on your way.’

She stood up and shook herself, straightening her shoulders as if she
had been freed from carrying a heavy knapsack and sidled carefully round
the dark hole in the centre. Lugg opened the door into the garden and
stood back for her to pass but on the threshold she hesitated and turned
directly to Morty.

‘You wouldn’t . . . ?’ she said and paused. The question answered
itself. ‘No, you wouldn’t.’

When she reached the far end of the lawn she began to run.


                             CHAPTER TWENTY
                            CARGO OF EAGLES

As Lugg closed the door the remainder of the group turned to Campion. He
was sitting forward in a chair, his hands clasped between his knees,
staring absently into the cavity in front of him.

‘What now?’ said Morty. ‘Is this the end of the whole goddamned
business? Is this what the entire shooting match was about? A matelot
who was murdered twenty years back?’

The thin man looked up as if he found the question surprising. ‘Oh, no.
Not the end. In a sense it is only the beginning. Dr Jones, speaking
professionally, would you prescribe tea at this moment? I’m afraid the
dawn is going to sneak up on us very soon. Lugg can arrange it if you
agree?’

The tension had broken and Dido gave a sigh of weariness and relief.

‘Speaking professionally,’ she said, ‘I prescribe Farmer’s tea, thick,
hot and strong. But for the love of mike anywhere else but here—the
kitchen, perhaps. I’ll give him a hand.’

Mr Campion rose to his feet.

‘Charlie and the boys,’ he said, ‘have a rather tricky job ahead of
them. They are about to compound a felony and we are all, I suppose,
accessories before the fact. But Burrows has served his purpose and I
think his remains should be discreetly removed. If you and Morty agree,
he can be transferred very efficiently into oblivion.’

He turned to the leader of the surveyors.

‘You know what to do. Could you be ready and move in half an hour?’

Charlie grinned. ‘We can fix our own tea break.’

Mr Lugg had worked miracles with unpromising material in the kitchen for
the room had a stone flagged floor, an ancient black oven and an air of
hard working austerity. It was now warm, polished and glowing with a
bright scarlet and white chequered tablecloth as the centre piece. Hot
amber tea laced with whisky appeared within minutes and the reviving
benison was sipped in silence.

Morty broke the spell by thumping the table. ‘The loot,’ he said
explosively. ‘The pirates’ hoard that’s driven Saltey round the bend for
all these years. Was it just another myth, an inflated nonsense like the
Demon—did it ever exist?’

Mr Campion surveyed him over his glasses.

‘Oh yes. It certainly existed.’ He stood up and crossed the room to a
cupboard beneath a dresser. From it he produced a dark green metal box
about eighteen inches square and four inches deep, a solid unattractive
object which might have been designed to hold ammunition. He placed it
carefully on the table for it was clearly heavy.

‘A treasure chest. Or part of it.’ He patted it gently before
continuing. ‘This is the real object of the exercise. It weighs fifty
pounds and there are ten of them. Until two nights ago when Lugg and I
found them they were lying beneath the body of Target Burrows but it
seemed best to satisfy Miss Jensen’s curiosity by allowing her to know
only half the story.’

He pressed a spring catch and raised the lid. Inside lay a row of
cylinders each wrapped in discoloured paper which had once been white,
fitting closely into grooves. He prized one free with a kitchen knife
and unwrapped it methodically, balancing it in his hand. The column
swayed in the air and broke, splaying a yellow cascade over the table.
On the chequered cloth the coins made a gay modern design in red, white
and gold.

‘Double Eagles,’ he said. ‘Twenty dollar gold pieces. Pirate gold—fairy
gold—a king’s ransom. It depends how you look at them.’

The steaming drink provided an essential pause. The bright coins
glistened on the table between the tea cups and it was some time before
Morty picked one of them up, holding it gingerly between finger and
thumb.

‘Give me a minute to get my breath,’ he said. ‘I’ve never seen one
before except on a bandleader’s watch chain. They must be worth a
fortune.’

Mr Campion sipped his tea thoughtfully before producing a slip of paper
from his wallet.

‘According to my Bank Manager, who says he is not really used to this
sort of enquiry, the Double Eagle is worth £15 and weighs 0.967501 of a
fine ounce. Today’s price for bullion gold is £11.11.9 an ounce.
Mathematics is not my strong point but I make the grand total around
£100,000. Quite a haul, even for a modern pirate.’

‘How much did Doll really know of this?’ Dido’s voice had the trace of
an edge. ‘Or was she guessing hopefully in her little dream world?’

Mr Campion shook his head. ‘She didn’t know anything. All she had to go
on was the vague boast repeated by her mother. Teague only opened his
mouth once and as soon as he was caught he thought better of it. He had
killed two men to keep his secret and in a way, three. But twenty years
is a long time to think over one’s sins especially if not all of them
have been found out. There’s no statute of limitations for murder, you
know, and he dared not face the chance of a second charge when he was
old and broken. When I saw him it occurred to me that he’d had some sort
of mild stroke. He . . .’

Morty interrupted. ‘You said he killed two men and possibly three. Who
was the third?’

‘The third death was Matt Parsley, the undertaker. I don’t think Teague
killed him but he was certainly morally responsible. On that particular
night the 26th of March, 1946, when the barge _Blossom_ lay off the
Bowl, Teague and Burrows took their cargo ashore. It was stowed in
champagne cases which fitted the boxes very neatly, two to a case.

‘Matt Parsley was an old villain who knew all about smuggling and had
certainly helped them many times before, and his workshop was very close
to the quay. They loaded the stuff on to his barrow, probably putting
most of it into a coffin, in case anyone noticed them going up the road
to Forty Angels. Teague had his hideaway here at The Hollies, a cache
he’d built long before the war for hiding contraband. Miss Kytie was
away all that spring and the house was empty.

‘What happened in the garden room that night is a matter of pure guess
work. My guess is that Matt Parsley, who was a fat, asthmatic old man
with a weak heart, had an attack, perhaps brought on by lifting heavy
weights, I think he died in this room, but quite unexpectedly—leaving
only Teague and Burrows. They may have quarrelled and had a fight for
Teague may have killed his partner in cold blood. Again Burrows may have
been killed first and the shock was too much for Matt Parsley. Remember,
there was the very devil of a row about the piracy when it became known.
On the night the _Blossom_ lay off Saltey a description of the two men
was broadcast, with particular emphasis on Burrows’ glass eye, which
made him very easy to recognise. They had to hide the loot and they
certainly didn’t trust each other enough to lie low separately until
things quietened down. Teague was the brains of the act and he probably
realised that as long as Burrows was anywhere near him, his chances of
being recognised and caught were more than doubled. He was a calculating
killer and the idea could have been in his mind all along. He is the
only man who knows the truth and he is pretty certain to die with his
secret.

‘What I am sure he did was to put Matt Parsley’s body into the coffin
and trundle it back to the shed, where he abandoned it in a rather
spectacular way.’

Mr Lugg lifted one of the curtains and looked out. ‘Dawn coming up,’ he
said. ‘I’ll take the boys a drop and see how they’re gettin’ on with the
packin’.’

Morty was still playing with the golden array on the table.

‘Who owns this stuff? What happens to it now?’

‘Two very good questions,’ said Mr Campion. ‘And the first one isn’t so
simple to answer. Strictly speaking it belongs to the Treasury but that
is not quite where it is going.’

He drew his chair closer to the table and began to arrange the coins in
a pile.

‘This is the whole story. I couldn’t tell it before and for reasons
you’ll understand it must never be told again.

‘At the end of the War I was with a man called L. C. Corkran—you
spotted him the other day in Killowen Square, Morty—doing one of those
hush-hush jobs in France.

‘I’m afraid a lot of bribery and corruption came into it and the only
reliable currency was gold. In the Middle East they used British
sovereigns but in the Resistance business it was best to pay in twenty
dollar gold pieces. When the show closed down the remainder of the cash,
all this pirate’s hoard, among a lot of other items which we didn’t want
to explain to the French Government, had to be brought home. At that
point it had to be got away very quickly. Not all the people we dealt
with were noble souls. They knew we had big money available. An ocean
going yacht, the _Clymene_, which belonged to the Greek millionaire
Christoff, a chap very much on our side, seemed the ideal transport. He
had diplomatic immunity and so far as customs were concerned the yacht
could get into any port in England with no questions asked. Our little
outfit was so secret that no one was allowed to know about us but the
fact must be faced that we weren’t secret enough. Somewhere along the
line there was a leak. Teague and his pal Burrows who’d spent the War in
the Merchant Navy were hanging around Marseilles, up to no good and
looking for trouble. They had a couple of other thugs in tow, Goddard
and Hunter and between them they ran a profitable line in smuggling and
probably gun running between the Riviera and Algiers.

‘It looks as if they had a longer trip chasing the _Clymene_ than they’d
expected or they’d have headed back for an African port once they’d got
what they wanted. As it was they were probably running short of fuel so
they had to make a dash for the Hamble river and abandon the pirate
craft.

‘But Christoff’s cargo was certainly hijacked in a big way and the
really valuable part of it vanished without trace. To complicate matters
there couldn’t be a full scale official enquiry because officially the
cargo didn’t exist.

‘Christoff got most of his own property back and was compensated for the
rest because he was a very wily bird and heavily insured. The Eagles
were never mentioned. After the trial—when it was clear that Teague had
no intention of speaking—the loss had to be placed very regretfully in
the just-too-bad section, and filed for reference.’

‘Written off?’

‘The Department,’ said Mr Campion formally, ‘never explains its budget,
but it has to ask for it just the same. Unfortunately, this does not
mean that the funds are liberal—in fact the place is run on the well
known shoe string. Things were getting tight when I left them at the end
of 1946 and I gather that they’ve got progressively worse since then. No
more golden gifts to keep the natives friendly and precious little sugar
for the weekly issue of office tea.

‘The Eagles may have been written off, but they weren’t forgotten. From
then on any really big expenditure had to have sanction from Whitehall.
Two months ago a situation arose in which a big sum of money—in Eagles,
incidentally—was urgently needed. A British Agent, a woman, had been
arrested in an area which is virtually behind the Iron Curtain, even if
it pretends not to be. She wasn’t charged, but just held and questioned,
probably very unpleasantly. It doesn’t look as if the people concerned
were quite sure of what they’d got hold of, but they were prepared to
take a long time finding out, using any methods they pleased.

‘Now in the ordinary way of business if a really valuable agent is
caught and sentenced an exchange is arranged—it’s part of the game and
very well understood by both sides. But this case is rather different
because as yet they are uncertain if she really is what they suspect. To
offer an exchange now, or at any other time come to that, is to admit
the woman’s guilt and to damn everyone faintly connected with her. Break
one link and a whole length of chain goes along with it. Corkran has his
human side where his own people are concerned but an admission of that
sort would endanger a lot of lives and destroy a whole network.’

He paused to empty his cup. ‘There was—there still is—an alternative.
Really a very simple one if you know that part of the world. Bribery. A
well greased palm for politician and policeman alike. A lot of money, a
cargo of Eagles distributed judiciously very near the top, would open
any prison in the country.’

‘Lovely work if you can get it.’ Mr Lugg’s throaty tones brought the
party back to immediate considerations. ‘More tea, one and all?’

‘The problem,’ continued Mr Campion, ‘might be summed up as “First catch
your Eagle”. Corkran’s overtures to the money boys at the Treasury met
with a remarkably frigid reception. In fact he was turned down at every
level and finally right at the very top. But he had one shot left in the
locker. If he could recover the cash which had been written off twenty
years back—even if it was technically no longer his to dispose of—he
need do no explaining or pleading to anyone.’

He turned to Dido. ‘You don’t know the old boy, I suppose? Very few
people do. He’s theoretically too dyed-in-the-wool to thumb his nose at
Authority when it’s entrenched against him but the idea appeals to him
all the same. A lot of his success had been built on it and now that
he’s retiring he’s less respectful than ever.

‘In this case he said nothing to his colleagues in the department but
called back a member of the firm who had left the business just after
the war. Since I had no official standing no one could ask awkward
questions. “Who owns that bag of gold you happen to be carrying?”: “The
Treasury, I suppose, but we have other plans for it”.’

‘That situation had to be dodged. I’m afraid my efforts have caused you
a lot of trouble.’

Dido shook her immaculate head.

‘You laid the ghost for me,’ she said. ‘No one else could have removed
Doll Jensen and her friends. Where is all the money, by the way—the
rest of it, I mean? Somehow I don’t feel it would be safe in a kitchen
cupboard, even now.’

Mr Campion’s diffident smile broadened. ‘If you look in your cellar,’ he
murmured, ‘you’ll find seventy-two bottles of excellent champagne. A
very good year—I chose it myself. The cases are missing because they
are on their way to foreign parts under a diplomatic seal. You can guess
the contents. As for the specimens on the table, they will travel to
London with the surveyors. All except two, which will never be accounted
for.’

He passed one across the table to Dido and another to Morty.

‘Just the thing for a watch chain.’

Mr Lugg cocked his head to one side at a sound from above their heads.

‘Your refined Ding Dong,’ he said. ‘’Orrible friends you’ve got, ringing
up at this time in the morning. As soon as I’ve packed this lot up I’m
ex-communicating meself until late luncheon.’

When Mr Campion returned to the kitchen the old man had disappeared and
light was streaming through the curtains. The dawn chorus was reaching a
crescendo and the table in the centre of the room was empty.

Dido and Morty who were standing very close to each other by the open
window did not hear his arrival and after a few moments he coughed
discreetly. They turned towards him and he noticed with a flicker of
amusement that Dido’s hair had lost its flawless perfection.

‘What was all that about?’ said Morty.

Mr Campion surveyed them benevolently from over his glasses before he
answered. ‘A chap from the Department. He rang to say “Mission
accomplished”.’




            Photoset, printed and bound in Great Britain by
              REDWOOD BURN LIMITED, Trowbridge, Wiltshire




                           TRANSCRIBER NOTES

Misspelled words and printer errors have been corrected. Where multiple
spellings occur, majority use has been employed.

Punctuation has been maintained except where obvious printer errors
occur.

[The end of _Cargo of Eagles_, by Margery Allingham.]
