=* A Distributed Proofreaders Canada eBook *=

This eBook is made available at no cost and with very few restrictions.
These restrictions apply only if (1) you make a change in the eBook
(other than alteration for different display devices), or (2) you are
making commercial use of the eBook. If either of these conditions
applies, please contact a https://www.fadedpage.com administrator before
proceeding. Thousands more FREE eBooks are available at
https://www.fadedpage.com.

This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright
in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your country's
copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT
DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.

_Title:_ Deadly Duo
_Date of first publication:_ 1945
_Author:_ Margery Allingham (1904-1966)
_Date first posted:_ Jan. 31, 2020
_Date last updated:_ Oct. 6, 2020
Faded Page eBook #20200160

This eBook was produced by: Al Haines, Jen Haines & the online
Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at https://www.pgdpcanada.net





                          [Cover Illustration]




                               DEADLY DUO

                           Margery Allingham




       Copyright, 1945, 1946, 1949, by Doubleday & Company, Inc.




                                CONTENTS


                       Wanted: Someone Innocent  7


                       Last Act                 71




                        Wanted: Someone Innocent


I didn’t blame my uncle. I don’t think anyone could have done that. I
said as much to my landlady, the vast Mrs. Austin, one night when she
sat on my bed squashing my feet in a wide gesture of intimacy in the
horrible little room at the top of her house in Pimlico.

Mrs. Austin was a Cockney and kind and emotional, as they are, those
stalwart old women whom no one suspected of gallantry until they
suddenly produced it like a flag, and she had been saying with
unintentional brutality that it was a shame I wasn’t one thing or the
other, neither the young lady of wealth I’d been trained to be nor the
go-getting milliner’s apprentice I was doing my best to become.
Thirty-five bob a week was not her idea of a living wage, she said, and
I could not have agreed with her more; seven dollars, Sally would have
called it. I put Sally out of my mind hastily. It didn’t help to think
of her when there was only Mrs. Austin to talk to.

The old woman shook her head at me, her festoon of chins sweeping the
unfashionable choker of marble-size pearls she wore. “You wouldn’t do no
good making ’ats, dear, not if ’orses wore ’em,” she said. I laughed at
that, but in my heart I agreed with her. What was more serious, I was
sickly aware that Madame Clothilde was beginning to get the same
impression.

Her real name was Ethel Friedman, and she was the nearest thing to a
black parrot in appearance, but she had given me a job when Uncle Grey
died, and she had done it partly out of kindness to an ex-customer and
only incidentally because she thought I might be able to bring a few of
the right kind of customers to her shop in Hanover Square.

At that time, a year ago, I had believed she was justified, but then I
was nineteen, fresh from Totham Abbey School, inexperienced and
sanguine. Now I was twenty, and completely disillusioned, of course.

Mrs. Austin harped on her theme. “Holidays abroad and then no money!
Serve ’im right if you end on the streets,” she persisted. “Fancy dying
like that.”

“Don’t,” I said, “please don’t. You don’t understand.”

She snorted. I sat looking through her purple bosom at Uncle Grey as I
remembered him, an aristocratic old man, whose linen was laundered
meticulously, whose shoes were very narrow, whose hands were long and
gracious, and who had a sweet smile and a prim mouth, which yet could
say gently witty things.

He was a bachelor of a vanished school, and when my father and mother
had disappeared together under the green waters in the _Queen Adelaide_
disaster, a frightened nurse had presented herself to him on the steps
of Prinny’s Club, Pall Mall, with me, a white-faced seven-year-old,
clinging to her hand. He simply had done what he could for us, as he
must have for any other two ladies in distress. He paid the nurse her
wages and wrote her a reference. He placed me in the care of Miss
Evangeline Budd, the principal of Totham Abbey, “School for the
Daughters of Gentlemen.” The fees must have surprised him, but I fancy
he was gratified that it was the best old-fashioned girls’ school in the
country.

Before the European disaster swallowed his investments, he used to take
me abroad every year. We went everywhere and saw everything, and always
he treated me as a grown-up young lady whom he was privileged to escort.
He was always considerate and never affectionate. I thought of him as a
cross between God and a Cook’s man.

When everything was gone save a small annuity, he died. He wrote me no
letter, but one of the club servants came to see me at the Abbey and
brought me his Georgian-silver snuffbox and the signet ring with the
square amethyst. An insurance policy covered Uncle Grey’s debts, as well
as his funeral.

My upbringing proved about as useful as the other things I’d been left.
My education had been excellent, but only so far as it went. I could
write a respectable hand, but I couldn’t type; I could balance my dress
allowance, but I couldn’t keep accounts; I could play the piano, but I
couldn’t vamp a tune; I could welcome a duchess to a bazaar, but I
couldn’t sell her a hat. I had not even made any useful friends.

At school, Sally had sufficed me. We had been such tremendous buddies
that neither of us had had much time for anyone else. She was a year
older than I, and by the time I was job-hunting, she had gone home to
the United States and was now with a hospital unit on the other side of
the world. I could see her quite distinctly as I stared into Mrs.
Austin’s straining gown. Five feet of dynamite topped with dark red
curls, dark eyes with all the gayety of her race in them, and a mouth
that, with all its impudence, was also wise.

“You ought to get married, ducks,” announced Mrs. Austin for the
hundredth time. “Perhaps you’ll pick up something on this outing
tomorrow.”

“It’s not going to be that kind of party,” I said, laughing. “My
headmistress is retiring, and this is her farewell reception to her old
girls.”

“If you ask me, you’re wasting your time,” she said. “You look a picture
these days, but it won’t last. It’s wonderful ’ow girls do go orf,
working about in London. Now’s your chance, when you do look something.
Don’t throw yourself away on schoolmistresses. I wonder you want to go.”

I had been thinking that myself, although not for the same reason. I
dreaded the reception. Sally wouldn’t be there, and all it had to offer
me was a lonely good-bye to the one place I’d ever known to be any sort
of home. Once the Abbey had a different head, it would not seem like my
old school any more. It was my last tie with a life that wasn’t bounded
by the shop and the attic bedroom, and I was going to see it break.

I would have refused the invitation if I had not been silly enough to
mention it to Madame.

She jumped at it. “Now, that is an idea,” she said, her black eyes
snapping. “That’s more like it. If your friends won’t come here, you
must take the business to them. You can have the whole day, and you can
wear the grey Lejeune bonnet. I want that to be seen. When people remark
on it, as they will, just tell them they can get a copy here in any
color, and only eight guineas. It’s very nice of me to trust you with
it, Miss Brayton. It’s worth twenty pounds.”

I told her I’d rather not have the responsibility; it might rain or
something.

“You sell half a dozen copies, and I don’t care if it snows on it,” she
said.

Totham Abbey girls are the daughters of bishops and the duller peers,
and fashion is not and never has been quite at home there. The Lejeune
bonnet was one of those extravagances Paris thought up in a joyous hour;
the chiffon rose on top finished it—and me, too, when I thought about
it.

Finding me uncommunicative, Mrs. Austin heaved herself off my bed. “What
you want,” she dictated from the doorway, “is an ’usband, and when you
find one, ’ang on ta ’m.” Then she switched out the light. “You go to
sleep,” she said, “and termorrer make up your mind to find a way out of
all this ’ere. This isn’t your style, and never will be. Good night.
Don’t read, ducks. I must get the ’lectric bill down. ’Appy dreams.”

I turned over on my face. As I lay there, it occurred to me that part of
what she said was true. I must get out of this if it wasn’t going to get
me down.

The reception was rather harder to endure than I had expected. To begin
with, the Abbey was lovelier than I had thought. The Gothic tower over
Big Hall was more graceful, the lawns were neater and more green, the
flower beds brighter than I had dreamed. They all held out their arms,
so to speak. It jolted me.

On the other hand, the Lejeune bonnet was just about as unsuitable as I
had foretold. I met Bunch Howarth as I went up the drive, and I saw her
heavy brows rise as she glanced at it. Bunch is the daughter of an
Estate in the Shires, and although we never had been buddies at school,
that had not been her fault. Sally and I had not had much time for her
worthy solidity. She was thicker than ever now in faultless tweeds, and
her unimpeachable velours made me feel as if I’d come out in something
from the finale of a revue.

“So glad you could come,” she declared.

“Oh, I thought I’d buzz down,” I said. “I was always fond of old Budd,
you know.”

Her blank expression was excusable, for neither Sally nor I ever had
been pets of the headmistress. She still irritated me.

“I don’t say I had a crush on her,” I said, dropping into the school
vernacular. “Don’t keep looking at my hat, you gump.”

She giggled, in exactly the same way she used to in class, and I almost
forgot I’d seen her engagement announced to one of the Perownes. “It’s
sweet,” she said, “but it needs bridesmaids.”

That was my chance to attempt to sell it, of course, and I saw it, but I
couldn’t take it. Instead I said, “You can be matron of honor, darling,”
and added, “Are we late or horribly early?”

“Late, or at least you are. I came out again to see the garden. Everyone
who has ever been here seems to have turned up,” Bunch announced. “That
incredible woman, Rita Fayre, is the lion, or was when I came out. You
knew her, didn’t you? She was Rita Raven before she married Julian
Fayre. A bit of a publicity hound, I should think.”

Rita Raven. The name came back to me over what seemed to be an
incredible number of years. I remembered a tall dark girl whose
black-brown eyes were piercing and, to my infant mind, slightly
terrifying. She had been an outstanding figure among the seniors in my
first term.

“She left almost as soon as I came,” I said. “I never spoke to her.
She’s about thirty now, is she?”

“About that. Fearfully modern and all that. I’m rather surprised Budd
asked her. She may be terribly wealthy, but she’s hardly Totham Abbey
style, is she?”

“Isn’t she?” I said doubtfully. “What’s her line—sticky divorce?”

“Oh, no. Only she’s a bit of a mystery, turning up to marry Fayre after
being abroad for eight or nine years. She gives fantastic parties, I
believe, and gets a lot of publicity for her painting, which is odd and
rather filthy. I thought you’d know, being in London.”

“She’s escaped me,” I said. “I don’t do my homework on the picture
papers as I should. I was always vague, you know.” If this was not true,
at least it had been my reputation at school, and perhaps I had fostered
it a little, hoping, no doubt, that it might give me an interesting
mistiness beside Sally’s lovely bright color.

Bunch laughed. “I don’t know about being vague, but you’ve suddenly
grown absolutely beautiful,” she said. “I hardly knew it was you,
Gillian. You’ve come into flower or something.”

I had no reply to that, but I was grateful for her clumsy praise, for we
had just gone into the Hall, and everywhere I saw faces turned toward
me; some had surprise on them, and some curiosity, and some the thing I
most dreaded, pity.

I left Bunch then and pushed my way to Budd, who was standing on a
ridiculous rostrum under the central arch, looking exactly like a bronze
of a plump Victorian statesman in classic robes. Poor Budd, she always
did drape herself for a party, as if Nature had not done it for her
already. As we shook hands, she eyed the bonnet, and a wintry smile
flickered over her lips. I knew her so well that I understood perfectly.
She was assuming that I had put it on to create a false impression of
affluence, and she wished to tell me she was not deceived. She set
herself out to be gracious, but she was also very cautious.

I saw Rita Fayre immediately; one could hardly miss her. The crowd round
her was far larger than the straggling group beneath Miss Budd’s
rostrum. I recognised her, but she was smaller than I had expected, and
it took me some moments to realise that I had grown a little since I had
seen her last. Her eyes were still piercing, but she was vivacious and
unbelievably soignée in mink and the chunky jewelry then so much in
fashion. She was not beautiful, exactly, but there was a forceful charm
about her, and she betrayed an acute sophisticated intelligence, which
was impressive. I could well believe that she was much publicised; she
looked like a celebrity.

I did not go too close, because, of course, I did not know her. We never
had spoken, and she hardly could have remembered me.

I was drifting away when Rowena Keith bobbed up before me. While we were
talking, I noticed the chypre. A fur-clad arm slid over my shoulder, and
I was pulled gently around.

“Darling!” said a deep, effusive voice. “Here you are at last. My lamb,
how pretty you’ve grown.”

Rita Fayre kissed me before I could speak, and Rowena strode hastily
away.

I came out of the embrace a little dazed. My impression was that the
celebrity had made a mistake. She was smiling at me affectionately. “I’m
Gillian Brayton,” I murmured at last.

“But of course you are,” she agreed unexpectedly, and slid her arm into
mine. “And I used to be Rita Raven. Doesn’t it seem an age since we used
to tear about here together? Do you remember those revolting bands of
licorice we used to share on Sunday afternoons? My dear, I _am_ glad to
see you again.”

There was nothing I could say; I hardly could object to her claiming
friendship with me, of course. It was extraordinarily nice of her, if
incomprehensible. As she chattered on, the illusion became complete. It
sounded as if we had been in constant correspondence. There were times
when even I wondered. We had a royal progress through the room, and I
began to enjoy it. From being a Cinderella, I became at least an
attendant on the fairy queen.

If she was determined not to let me go, I certainly made no effort to
escape. At close quarters she was a trifle overpowering; her forceful
personality was imperious, and she had a way of sweeping criticism aside
with a ruthless high-handedness I never before had encountered. After
half an hour or so, by which time I was completely dizzy, we reached the
doors leading to the main entrance and the drive, and I prepared to take
my leave. As I moved, her arm tightened on mine.

“Let’s get out of here,” she said abruptly. “We’ve got to talk. I’m
giving you a lift to town, Gillie.”

“It’s awfully good of you,” I began, “but——”

“Nonsense, dearest. It’s a miracle you’ve turned up at last. I only came
down today to find you, and we’ve got some serious talking to do. Come
along.”

She swept me on down the corridor, and I blinked at her. “What about?” I
enquired blankly.

She laughed and hugged my arm. “Sweet, vague little Gillie,” she said.
“Just the same, only a thousand times prettier. Yet you’ve not really
changed; you still look faraway and slightly puzzled by everything. I’m
so relieved; I dreaded to think what a year alone in London might have
done to you. How are all the boy friends?” The final question was thrown
in casually, but she made it clear she expected an answer.

“There aren’t any,” I said, as the Rolls whispered over the gravel
toward us.

Her eyes flickered as we got in, and I saw that she was pleased. I felt
somehow that I’d told her a lot more than I’d intended. Her next remark
concerned the bonnet. “It doesn’t suit you,” she said. “It’s far too
old, for one thing. You must wear a sailor. Lejeune intended that for
someone over thirty.”

My surprise amused her. “I saw it in his Paris collection,” she said.
“Clothilde made you wear it hoping for orders, I suppose. She really
ought to have known it wasn’t suitable.”

She took my breath away and made me feel transparent as well as
uninformed.

“Oh well, that’s all finished,” she said calmly, settling back on the
cushions. “You’ve had quite enough of Clothilde. You’re coming home with
me now, do you know that?”

I felt it was high time to get a grip on myself. The whole afternoon had
been too much like a daydream. “I didn’t,” I said drily.

She glanced at me under her lashes, and her bright lips smiled. “I’m
telling you. We’re going to drop into your boardinghouse and pick up
your things and drive home right away. Don’t argue with me, dearest.
I’ve made up my mind.”

“But I’ve never heard of such a thing,” I protested. “You don’t really
know me and——”

“Gillian!”

“I mean, not very well.”

“Rubbish, darling. We were buddies years and years ago. I used to do
your sums for you. Remember?”

I certainly did not, but I did see that this was no time to argue the
point. For that matter, I did not know how she knew I lived in a
boardinghouse unless she had been making enquiries about me.

“Listen, Gillie,” she said, dropping her hand on my knee, “I want you to
come. You’ll be a tremendous help to me. Don’t let me down.”

She made it all sound so absurd, when she put it like that. I hardly
liked to explain to her that I thought she was crazy, and while I was
hesitating, I became aware that she was offering me a job.

“Three hundred pounds a year, Gillie, and of course you’ll live with
us.”

“But—but you could get a trained secretary for that.”

“Of course I could, my lamb, but I don’t want a trained secretary. I
just need someone I can trust who will be a little sister to me—do the
flowers and that sort of thing.”

“At three hundred pounds a year?”

A fleeting cloud of anger passed over her face. It was very brief, but I
was startled by its intensity. “Don’t worry, sweetie,” she said, smiling
at me. “Just sit back and take what’s coming to you. You’ll love it, you
know.”

I was so astounded that I did just what she told me. To this day I don’t
know if it was she or the Rolls that argued more eloquently. After the
afternoon’s taste of nostalgic luxury, my life at Clothilde’s seemed
very sordid and unimportant.

It was Mrs. Austin who put in the only word of caution that dizzy
afternoon.

While the car and Rita’s coat were making a sensation in the dingy back
street, Mrs. Austin snatched a word with me. “Ducks,” she said,
squeezing my hand in her vast, damp one, “I know it’s not my business,
but I must ask you—are you sure this is orl orl right?”

“Perfectly,” I assured her lightheartedly. “It’s absolutely marvelous.
Mrs. Fayre’s offered me a wonderful job. I’ll come to see you next
week.”

Her coarse, kindly face did not alter. “Mind yer do,” she said. “I’ll be
worrying. You do read of _such_ things. I’d trust you anywhere, but oh,
ducks, are you sure it’s orl above-board?”

“It’s perfectly all right,” I assured her. “Mrs. Fayre and I were
friends at school.”

“Ow, why didn’t yer say so?” Her relief was ludicrous. “Of course, if
you was friends at school, that explains everything. Orf you go, and
mind yer step.”

It was not until I was back in the car that I recollected that Rita and
I hardly had been friends at school; but by that time she was setting
out to be so charming to me that a trivial misstatement like that seemed
a matter less than nothing.

                 *        *        *        *        *

I fell in love with the house as soon as I saw it. We came upon it
suddenly when we turned toward the river at Richmond. It lay among lawns
at the water’s edge, a rosy rectangle of Georgian brick, with a
sugar-loaf roof and two modern wings, and the lights in its tall windows
welcomed us in the windy gloom.

I stepped under a canopied porch into a wide hall, which was cool and
gracious and smelled faintly of wax polish and flowers. An elderly
butler, a wisp of a man with close-cropped white hair, came to meet us
and showed no flicker of surprise as the chauffeur followed with my
suitcases. I might have been expected. It was the friendliest, happiest
of homes, I should have said, had it not been for one little incident.

Rita paused to speak to the butler, and as she turned away, I caught a
glimpse of his face. It was gone in a moment, but I saw it—a gleam of
unmistakable venom in his old eyes. He looked as if he loathed her. It
passed through my mind then, at the beginning, that there was probably a
lot about Rita I had yet to discover.

“Leave everything. They’ll see to it,” she said, putting an arm round my
shoulders. “We’ll go and see who’s in the studio, shall we? There’s
usually someone here about six. I adore people to drop in, don’t you?”
Still talking, she swept me down a wide passage to a door set under an
archway at the end. It was partly open, and I heard voices and the clink
of glasses as we approached.

“Oh, isn’t this fun!” her arm tightened. “You’re taking years off me,
Gillie.”

It was fun, of course, tremendous fun, and I glanced round curiously at
a vast, panelled drawing room, which had been modernised and done over
in grey and white, with brilliant colours coming from the canvases on
the walls. There were about a dozen people present, but they looked a
crowd to me. Sherry was in circulation, and there was a general cry of
welcome as we appeared.

“Darlings, I’m exhausted!” Rita went in with a rush, taking me too.
“I’ve been back to school, and it’s nearly killed me. Meet my adopted
sister, everybody. Can’t you just see us both in pigtails?”

“Just, but only if the child was in a pram.” The man who spoke came
over, with brimming glasses held out to us. He dropped a casual kiss on
the cheek Rita raised to him, and smiled at me with ironical approval. I
assumed him to be Julian Fayre, Rita’s husband, until she corrected me.

“This is Ferdie, Gillie. Not a nice man. Don’t trust him. We only put up
with him because of his money. How much older than Gillie do I really
look, Ferdie?”

He murmured something in her ear.

She pretended to be furious and appealed to me. “Darling, do I look like
your mother? What a horrible person he is. Come along, I want to show
you to someone much more intelligent.”

We went on through the gathering, and the badinage continued all around
us.

“Sweetly, pretty, Rita. Wherever did you find her?” a woman called.

“Nize little girl,” declared a rosy individual, who, I am certain, saw
two of me.

Rita smiled at them all, but did not pause, leading me across the room
to where, on an enormous leather couch, a man sat watching us. He got up
as we approached and took both her hands, but his eyes were on me. I saw
a plump, middle-aged foreigner, carefully, almost foppishly dressed,
with a pale, heavy face and round brown eyes. He wore a small black
imperial, which enhanced the fullness of his lips, and I disliked him on
sight for his way of peering into one’s eyes, which I found
disconcerting. I did hope he was not the husband.

“Adorable lady,” he said to Rita, revealing a high voice and a strong
accent, “you look so tired. Come and sit here with old Henri.” He was
still looking at me, and I smiled politely.

Rita seated herself, drawing me down beside her. “Gillie, my angel, this
is Dr. Phoebus, who thinks he is the most brilliant man in London.
That’s so, isn’t it, Henri?”

“Possibly, yes,” he agreed affably. “I’m not quite sure yet. Maybe. She
pulls my leg all the time,” he added, settling himself so that I was
between them. “I am only her entrepreneur, you understand. I merely
present her. I am the easel, she is the picture. She is the genius. Did
she tell you that?”

“I was beginning to guess it,” I said.

He had a gently teasing way, which was not altogether unpleasant, but I
still did not like him.

Rita was excited and, unless I imagined it, very eager to please. She
launched at once into a description of the school party. She made it
sound very amusing, and Phoebus sat nodding and smiling, but his eyes
never left my face.

“And so you found this little one?” he said presently.

“At last. Wasn’t I lucky? She was my only real friend at school, you
know. The only one I remember, at any rate. She’ll save my life here.
Isn’t she sweet, Henri?”

“Sweet?” he said. “Yes, and probably good. Charming. But not the
hat—that is terrible. Why do you wear it, Miss Brayton? It does not
suit you.”

I stared at him, not because of his remark, but because he’d used my
name. It had not been mentioned since we entered the house.

Rita was aware of it too. She put a hand over mine. “I’ve talked of you
such a lot, Gillie,” she said deliberately. “Henri’s always hearing
about my school days. It is a horrid hat, dear. Do take it off.”

The direct request sidetracked me, and I removed the bonnet in
embarrassment.

Phoebus took it from me at once and turned it round critically in his
plump white hands. “Bad,” he said; “it is not style, it is only fuss. I
forbid you to wear it again. In fact, I forbid any woman to wear it. It
is a monstrosity, isn’t it?”

He got up as he spoke, and Rita began to laugh. I had no idea what he
was going to do, and his movement, when it came, took me by surprise. He
went quietly to the blazing fire and put the hat on it. One moment it
was in his hand in all its foolish coquetry, and the next it was blazing
like a paper fire balloon; the flames swallowed the net and ribbons
greedily, and the pink chiffon rose on the crown nodded as it blackened
and died. I was frankly aghast. I hardly heard the crow of laughter that
greeted the incident. I felt I was in a room full of lunatics.

“Hey,” I said, jumping up, and the laughter echoed all over the room.

“My sweet,” Rita said, hugging me, “don’t. Don’t look like that, my pet.
You shall have twenty hats tomorrow. Henri, you brute, she’s going to
cry.”

“Is she? I must see that.” He came trotting back to look into my face
again. “No. Not a tear. Of course not, she has too much taste.”

“It’s all right with me,” I said, disengaging myself from the two of
them, “if you’ll do the explaining to Clothilde.”

“Of course we will, darling.” Rita was still laughing, still clutching
me, and she began to irritate me.

They were both treating me as if I were a pretty puppy someone had
brought in; but while he, I suspected, was uneasy under all his
affectations, she was triumphant and overexcited about something. I was
prepared to put up with anything within reason, but there was something
going on that I was not following at all. It was very uncomfortable.

“What do you think of her, Henri?” she said presently. “Isn’t she
absolutely perfect for it?”

He looked at me gravely. There was no amusement in his face, only
earnest appraisal. “Perfect,” he said slowly. “You are a very remarkable
woman, Rita.”

“Am I?” She was laughing at him, and for the first time he looked at her
directly, his eyes fixed on her dark, reckless face.

“Terrifyingly so,” he said after a pause. And then he shuddered; I saw
the tremor run through him as he turned away.

Rita’s hand closed tightly on my arm. “Go up to your room now, Gillie,
will you? Ask a servant where it is. Do you mind?”

I said no, of course not, but she had startled me considerably. She had
become very pale, and when she spoke to me, she did not meet my eyes.

                 *        *        *        *        *

When I left my bedroom, which was in the old part of the house and
possessed a powder closet that had been transformed into a tiny, tiled
bathroom, I did not go back to the studio. Everyone had gone out, for
one thing.

Rita, looking superb in white moiré and diamonds, had come to my room
just as I was unpacking the last of my possessions. She was in a
fantastic hurry, she said, but she had to run in and explain, because it
did seem such a shame on my first night. However, I mustn’t mind one
little bit, for she’d make it all up to me later, and it really would do
me good to go to bed early and get some nice sleep, wouldn’t it? They
were all going off to a reception. We’d have a lovely talk in the
morning, and meanwhile old Mrs. Munsen, the housekeeper, would find me
something exciting to eat and—oh, I’d be all right, wouldn’t I?

It was all I could do not to laugh at her. She had forgotten the
difference between twenty and thirteen, I thought. Some of that may have
been my fault. I was still wearing the junior-miss dresses I had had at
school, and I was certainly childishly delighted to find myself again in
the kind of background I’d had long ago.

The room was charming, very like the one I’d slept in at Mentone one
year when Uncle Grey and I went visiting the noblesse down there. “Don’t
worry about me,” I assured her. “I’m having a lovely time. I’ll start
work tomorrow.”

She said I was the dearest thing, blew a kiss at me, took her cloak from
her maid, who had followed her to my room, and fled downstairs to
Phoebus.

I dined alone and in state in a room that would have seated thirty
people. The butler, whose name turned out to be Rudkin, waited on me,
and after one tentative remark about the weather, which he snubbed, I
gave up trying to be friendly. Evidently his dislike of Rita extended to
her friends. It was a long meal, and I ate it in silence.

After the coffee he unbent sufficiently to pause beside my chair. “If
you would prefer to sit in the smaller drawing room, miss, I will take
you there now.”

I thanked him, and we set out through the brightly lighted but utterly
silent house. He opened a door at last.

“There are cigarettes on the fireside table, miss. When you wish to
retire, if you would touch the bell, a maid will take you back to your
room.”

It was all very lonely and formal, rather like staying with a rich
great-aunt who had forgotten one was coming.

This new room was like a great-aunt, too, but there was character here
as well as formality, and I suspected Rudkin of softening toward me for
him to trust me in it. It was a period gem, each piece chosen with
knowledge and kept perfectly. There were little homely touches,
too—side tables with caddies on them, and even a petit-point frame with
a half-worked panel in it, as though someone had just laid it down. The
whole thing was most unlike Rita. That thought had been tapping on the
door of my mind all through dinner. The servants themselves were rather
unexpected, considered in conjunction with her; their smartness was very
different from hers. It seemed odd to find the two opposing styles in
the same house.

It was about half an hour, I suppose, before I ventured to go out into
the garden. The glass doors were hidden behind long plum-coloured velvet
curtains, and when I pulled them back, bright moonlight streamed in on
me. The night was so clear that I almost could distinguish the
chrysanthemums in the borders that ran down to the water’s edge. I
stepped out quietly and wandered among the formal grass plots, feeling
utterly happy. I was desperately grateful to Rita, and not least for
going off and leaving me to discover all this alone.

I explored the garden as thoroughly as I could by moonlight and then
wandered back to the house. It really was a glorious place; there still
were lights in most of the windows, and I could walk along on the grass
path and see all the interiors spread out before me like old Dutch
paintings. There were the kitchens, where the servants were at a meal, a
cosy little room I took to be the housekeeper’s, and another that might
have been a library. Then there was a gap, and I turned a corner to the
west side of the building, which was partially enclosed by a small
walled garden of its own. I thought it was in darkness, at first, and
had just decided to go back when I caught the gleam of a fire burning in
a room that otherwise had no light. I went closer and peered in through
a pair of french doors. It seemed to be a music room—at least, there
was a baby grand standing on the polished boards, and I fancied I could
see a cello case in a corner. It was impudence, of course, but I had to
go in. It was a year since I’d seen a piano, and my hands itched to try
that one. I thought that if I played softly I should not be heard from
the kitchens.

The doors opened quietly, and I stepped in to warmth that was grateful
after the autumn night. For a moment I stood hesitating, but there was
no sound except the crackling of the fire, and I tiptoed over and sat
down.

The moment my fingers found the keys I gave up worrying about anything.
I sat there playing very softly for nearly an hour. I was abominably out
of practice—it shocked me to find out how much—and I vowed to practice
every day if I got the chance. I got down to some scales right away, in
fact, and worked hard for quite a time. It was marvellous to be sitting
there in the warm darkness, making music and forgetting everything else
in the world. I had paused and was rubbing my fingers and wondering how
long, if ever, before they got really supple again, when it happened.

A voice, very close to me, less than three yards away, I suppose, said
quietly, “Do you often burgle houses to play the piano?”

I screamed, or it would have been a scream if the sound had not been
stifled into a gulp in my throat, and my hands fell on the keys, making
a dreadful, frightened discord.

“Oh, I’m so sorry,” I said breathlessly. “I didn’t know anyone was
here.”

There was a long silence, and then someone laughed, very softly. That
was too much for me. I pushed back the stool with a clatter and made a
dive for the garden. I had my hand on the latch when a light shot up
from a reading lamp behind the piano, and I saw the speaker.

He was sitting in a wing chair on the far side of the fireplace, hidden
from me by the piano’s tail. I never had seen anyone look either so ill
or so forlorn. My alarm was swallowed up in concern for him, and I went
slowly back into the room. He was quite young, older than I, but not a
great deal. So much was obvious despite his weariness, which would have
been alarming had he been ninety. He was desperately thin; his clothes
hung on his bones as though they were on hangers. Yet it was a fine
face, sensitive and intelligent, but very pale and tired.

He smiled at me, and it transformed him. His wide mouth curled up
mischievously, and his dark eyes danced, “Don’t go,” he said. “I liked
it. Honestly. Even the scales. Do you touch the modern stuff?”

I said I did not get on very well with the new French folk, and he
nodded and went on talking music for some minutes. I got in another
apology at last, but he waved it aside.

“Please don’t,” he said. “Come when you like. I wish you’d sit down. I’m
awfully sorry I can’t get up, but it’s one of my bad days.”

It was shocking to hear the old man’s phrase coming from such a young
one. I felt very sorry for him. “It was dreadful of me,” I said. “I came
creeping in on you, and you’re obviously very ill. Is there anything I
can do?”

“I wish you could.” His mouth twitched a little as if he were secretly
amused. “However, it’s only temporary, they tell me, thank God.”

“But what happened? What is it?” I demanded. It was impossible to
preserve any formality with him, and anyway, the situation had an
unreal, dreamlike quality. I was so absurdly worried about him; he was
not the sort of person ever to be ill.

“It’s called ‘multiple neuritis,’ since it seems to worry you,” he said,
“and in my case it was caused by my—er—by my being left out in the
rain. No end of rain.”

“In the Far East?”

“Yes. Bullet through the thigh, and then—well, I got quite amazingly
wet.”

“How long before they got you to hospital?”

“Two weeks.”

“Oh, dear,” I ejaculated, and knew it was an idiotic thing to say.

He laughed like a boy, but there was tremendous underlying bitterness
there, and I knew I was on dangerous ground.

“I’m so sorry,” I said, and meant it.

“My dear child, don’t take it to heart.” He was still faintly amused,
but not annoyed. “It gets better some days, vanishes almost, and then
returns in full force just when I’m celebrating. It’s trying, but it
won’t last forever. The doctors swear that. Besides, I know it myself—I
am progressing slowly. Cheer up, it’s my funeral. You’re a baby, aren’t
you? I thought you were older when I heard you playing. Now I see you’re
only a kid. You ought to go on with that music.”

“I’m twenty,” I said.

“Really? I shouldn’t have thought it. One foot in the grave, eh? When
did you first take up burglary?”

“In youth,” I said. “It was dreadful. I——”

“Be quiet!” His dark eyes, which were blue, I saw suddenly, a very, very
dark blue, were apologetic. “I won’t have excuses. You came, although
you may not know it, in direct answer to prayer. I was sitting here,
aching in every bone and wishing to God someone would come and play to
me.”

“Were you?”

“Yes,” he said, and took my hand and squeezed it. There was nothing of
what Miss Budd would have called a “liberty” in that gesture; it was
just grateful and friendly and rather sweet. “Sit down and talk,” he
suggested, and I obeyed him.

It was very quiet and pleasant in the dimly lighted room; the fire
glowed, and the air was still full of the music. I was just going to
speak when the inner door opened and an old woman came in. I saw her
before he did, and I caught the suspicion in her face and saw it turn to
angry certainty as her glance fell on me.

I guessed she was the housekeeper, which was not very brilliant of me,
as she had done her best to make herself look like one. She was tall and
very spare, with a sharp red face, which made me think of a defeathered
bird, and her clothes were exactly like Mrs. Noah’s in the wooden ark I
had as a baby. Her black dress hung straight from her chin to her toes,
and a black velvet ribbon held in the loose skin at her neck. Her only
ornament was a small gold watch, fastened to her flat bosom with a
sensible gold pin. Her hair was scraped up to a bun, and her long red
hands were folded at her waist. None of these details impressed me
particularly at the time; I was aware only of her indignation.

The invalid turned his head. “Hello, Mary,” he said affectionately. “Not
time for bed yet, surely?”

“Not quite, sir.” She had a gruff voice, which she softened for his
benefit, and it was very apparent how fond she was of him.

“What is it?” he enquired.

She came right in then and stood between us. “I heard voices, sir. I
thought it was you playing, and of course I wouldn’t disturb you, but
then I heard the young lady talking.”

“And that’s not allowed, is it?” He was teasing her, but very gently.
“Mrs. Munsen has decided to be my nurse,” he said to me, “and not for
the first time, is it, Mary?”

She did not smile. Her narrow eyes flickered at him meaningly, and she
said a most surprising thing. “I didn’t know if you knew who the young
lady was, sir.”

With an effort he sat up and looked at her. I saw the glances that
passed between them, her assurance and his surprise changing to
bitterness and resignation.

“No,” he said at last in a new flat voice, “no, I had no idea.”

That was all, but all the friendliness, all the warmth, all the
heartbreaking charm went out of him. The glance he gave me was cool and
definitely contemptuous. “Good night,” he said. “Mary will take you to
your room.”

I had no idea what had happened. I was dismayed, embarrassed, as well as
bewildered. I thought perhaps he was not allowed to receive visitors.

“I’m so sorry,” I said to the woman. “I caught sight of the piano
through the window, and I——”

Her smile stopped me. Had she told me in so many words that I was
wasting her time and mine, she could not have put it more plainly. “This
way, miss, if you please,” she said.

I glanced at the man, but he was not looking at me. His eyes were bent
on the fire, and his wide mouth was thin and hard. I was taken from the
room as if I were a naughty child. From the threshold I glanced back,
but he was crouched over the fire.

In the corridor I tried to talk to Mrs. Munsen, but she ignored me.
“This way, miss.” She might have known no other words, and she led me
firmly to my bedroom.

By the time I got there, however, I had recovered a little and I was
angry. I swept her inside with me and managed to insert myself between
her and the door. “Mrs. Munsen,” I said, with all the firmness I could
conjure, “as you know, I only arrived here this evening, and I do not
know my way about yet. Who’s that I’ve been talking to downstairs?”

Her eyes wavered, and she shut her mouth tightly until she saw that I
was in earnest. “Let me pass, if you please, miss.”

“Oh, nonsense,” I said, laughing. “Surely you can tell me that.”

To my amazement she turned on me; a flush spread over her bony face,
making it terra cotta, and her narrow eyes snapped at me furiously. “As
if you didn’t know the master of the house. As if his—wife hadn’t told
you where to find him.”

I cannot hope to reproduce the venom she put into that word “wife,” but
at the time it was news that staggered me. He must have been at least
five years younger than Rita.

“Rita’s husband?” I said stupidly.

She brushed past me to the door and turned only when she had gained the
handle. “You’re very clever, miss,” she said, “and I’m sure you know it,
but let me tell you you’re doing what no decent girl would think about.
You can get me my notice if you like, and I dare say you can as things
are, but I made up my mind I’d tell you that straight to your face when
I saw you, and I have. Ashamed, that’s what you ought to be. Good
night.”

Even so, she did not bang the door, but shut it with a gentle finality
that was far more insulting. I was very angry but even more puzzled. I
could think of several possible explanations, but none in any way
likely. I was hurt, too; that bowed back and those thin shoulders were
very clear in my mind. It was so late that there was nothing for me to
do that night except go to bed, and I did that, and lay on such a
mattress as Mrs. Austin never knew, staring into the darkness and
wondering, among other things, how Rita could go to any party on earth
leaving such a man, sick and lonely, to the care of servants.

Before I went to sleep, I had half decided to turn the whole job in and
go back to Clothilde. There was something altogether too painful about
this house.

In the morning, while I was still trying sleepily to reconcile white
organdie curtains sprigged with currant blossoms with all I knew of Mrs.
Austin, a maid I had not seen before arrived with my breakfast tray. As
she set it on the bedside table, she said that Mrs. Fayre sent me her
love and hoped I would be down in time to see the doctor.

I sat looking at her in mild astonishment, waiting for her to explain.
As were all the other servants, save Rita’s Austrian maid, Mitzi, she
was on the oldish side. She was a stout, pleasant-faced woman who wore
an old-fashioned uniform, her high white cap enhancing the plumpness and
pinkness of her cheeks. She said nothing more, though, and was going out
when I stopped her.

“You did say ‘the doctor’?”

“Yes, miss.”

“I’m not ill.”

“No, miss.” There was not the vestige of a smile on her lips, and her
china-blue eyes were hostile.

I was back in the atmosphere of the night before immediately. I tried a
direct attack and asked her her name.

“Lily, miss.”

“Tell me, Lily, who is the doctor and when is he due?”

“It’s Dr. Crupiner, miss, and he’ll be here at a quarter to ten.”

“Do you know why I’m to see him?”

“No, miss.”

She went after that, and I was left to coffee and reflection. I thought
I could understand the resentment old servants might feel toward a new
member of the household who was neither one thing nor the other, but
they seemed to me to be carrying it a little far. At any rate, Mrs.
Munsen had no intention of starving me. My breakfast was the kind that
should be eaten off solid mahogany after a suitable grace. I had about a
quarter of it and then got up and bathed and dressed. It was all very
luxurious.

By daylight the house was lovelier than ever. It had a cosy, mellow
grace I had not met before, and the sun came in gaily at the tall
windows and coaxed the polished wood to glow as if age had made it
almost translucent. I saw no one in the hall, and thinking I should be
less in anyone’s way if I waited in the garden, I walked to the water’s
edge and remained there for some time.

I could see the short drive and the front door from where I stood, and
when the doctor’s car appeared, I was ready.

Dr. Crupiner’s saloon car should have warned me of the man. It was one
of those vehicles Sally said belonged to the period when people built
cars like cathedrals—with prayer. It was vast and high off the ground
and had, I swear, as much brass on it as a band. I arrived in the hall
grinning at my thought, and the smile was still on my face when a door
opened and Henri Phoebus came out. He was carrying gloves and a
wide-brimmed hat and appeared to be on his way to the street. I was
surprised to see him in the house so early, and may have shown it, for
he put his head on one side and shook a plump white finger at me.

“I always call early on people who have been to my parties, just to
prove that I, at any rate, have suffered no ill effects,” he said. “How
are you, Miss Brayton? Perhaps next time you will come too, eh?”

“That would be lovely,” I murmured without enthusiasm, and then moved
sharply so that it was the air he kissed an inch or two below my ear.

He stiffened, and I supposed he was annoyed, but to my surprise I saw
his expression was startled, almost scared. “Ungracious infant,” he said
lightly and pattered off.

But I had seen that look, and for the first time I felt desperately
uneasy. After all, what on earth could there be about me that should
have frightened him?

Rudkin appeared at that moment. I saw him when I was half across the
hall, and I was not at all sure where he had sprung from or if he had
seen the incident. His face betrayed nothing, but his manner was perhaps
a degree less chilly than before. “I was coming to find you, miss,” he
said. “Will you wait for the doctor in here, if you please?”

He took me to the small drawing room I had seen the night before. By
daylight the soft plum colours were very lovely, and I remarked on them
involuntarily.

The ghost of a sigh escaped him. “It’s a very beautiful room, miss,” he
agreed softly. “The dear old mistress loved every inch of it. Sometimes
when I come in here, I can almost fancy I see her sitting over there
with her needlework. She embroidered all these chair backs—gros point,
they call it. It’s very beautiful work.”

It was as though he suddenly had come alive, and I turned to him. “Was
that Mr. Fayre’s mother?”

“The Colonel’s mother, yes, miss. A very wonderful lady. Very different
from——” He checked himself hastily. “The doctor is upstairs with Madam
now, miss. He’ll be with you at any moment.”

“The doctor is here, Rudkin. Good morning, Miss Brayton. Permit me to
introduce myself. I am Dr. Crupiner.” The booming from the doorway
brought us both round, and a truly impressive figure stood before me,
two fingers graciously outstretched. Dr. Crupiner was certainly eighty,
and my first thought about him was that he ought to go on the stage. As
he shook hands with me, he led me to the window, presumably to see me
the better, and I looked up into a handsome, conceited old face whose
faded eyes peered into mine. He was a little tottery, but still very
sure of himself, with flowing silver hair and sleek, old-fashioned
clothes. He wore a great deal of jewelry, by modern standards, and his
four-in-hand cravat was fastened by a fine opal pin. “Ah,” he said,
producing a pair of pince-nez on a broad black ribbon. “Let me have a
look at you.”

My impression was that his first concern was to see how I was reacting
to this elderly magnificence, and it seemed he was satisfied, for he
indicated a chair midway across the room and, when I was safely
installed on it, took up a position on the hearthrug, hands behind him,
handsome head thrown back.

“Now,” he began, “to be brief. Mrs. Fayre wishes me to interview you
myself, and I must say I applaud her decision. One can hardly be too
circumspect.”

I had no idea what was coming and sat looking at him in fascinated
silence.

“You know why you are being employed?”

“No, I’m afraid I don’t. Rita told me I was to help her, to—er—to be a
little sister to her, but——”

“A little sister. My very words.” He seemed delighted. “I understood she
had been more specific. However, perhaps she was leaving it to my
judgment. After all, I might not have thought you suitable.”

“For what?”

“For a very delicate task that calls for the utmost discretion. You look
a sensible sort of girl.”

“I try,” I said, hoping that I sounded less stilted than I felt.

“Yes,” he said. “Yes. Mrs. Fayre tells me she has known you from a
child.”

“She knew me when I was a child.”

“Exactly. That is what I said,” he snapped, the point escaping him. “My
late brother, Dr. Albert Crupiner, with whom I was in partnership, had
the honor to prescribe for the Fayre family for a great many
years—forty-five, to be exact. He brought Colonel Julian Fayre into the
world and a few years ago attended poor old Mrs. Fayre in her last
illness. . . . I understand you have no nursing experience.”

“None at all.”

“Never mind. What we need now is intelligence and integrity—above all,
integrity.”

“Yes,” I said dubiously.

“We want you to be a companion to a convalescent.”

“A companion?”

He nodded. “Now, Miss Brayton, you may not know that it sometimes
happens that when a man has had a serious illness following the
hardships and—er—hazards of war, a nervous condition is apt to arise.”

“Nervous?”

“Exactly. In this condition, the patient is apt to show a certain
marked, if temporary, antipathy toward those very people he best loves.
Toward his wife, in fact.”

I began to understand, or at least I thought I did. “You’re talking
about Rita’s husband?”

“About Colonel Julian Fayre. He is a delightful fellow. He was my
brother’s patient, of course, but I have known him since he was a boy,
and I’m very sorry to see him now in such poor shape. Physically he’s
improving, but he still has this unreasonable distrust of his young wife
and, indeed, of women in general. Your task is to dispel that.”

“How?” I demanded.

“Wait on him, talk to him, listen to him. But——” He paused, and his
old eyes searched mine. “You will see,” he said distinctly, “that it is
of paramount importance that you should be entirely loyal to the wife.”

“Yes,” I said. “Yes, I see.”

He appeared relieved. “An intelligent girl,” he commented. “Mrs. Fayre
is to be congratulated. We’ve discussed this very thoroughly, of course,
and I told her to find a little sister. It seems that she has done so.
There is only one other point. Mrs. Fayre has just told me that you were
considered a little vague at school; indeed, that was the only doubt
that crossed her mind concerning your complete suitability.”

I felt myself growing red. It seemed an extraordinary thing for Rita to
have told him. After all, she never had known me properly at school. “I
think a lot of that was affectation,” I said bluntly.

“Oh, that was it, was it?” He smiled. “Then I don’t think we need to
consider it. If I may say so, you strike me as a remarkably acute young
woman. Now, as to details——”

He went rambling on, repeating himself and emphasising the importance of
my loyalty to Rita, a point self-evident to me, but also revealing that
someone, and I wondered if it was Rita herself, had given the matter
very careful thought. There was a plan of campaign. To break the ice I
was to be allowed to make the invalid’s evening coffee for him, and I
was to be trusted to put his sedative into it. The doctor gave me the
tablets with minute instructions. I was told how to approach him and
what to say if he should criticise Rita. I did not like it altogether,
but I could see their difficulty, and I was desperately sorry for Julian
Fayre. I began to like the old doctor, too. He was atrociously
conceited, and he was, I suspected, something of a fool, but he had a
great admiration for Rita and was anxious to help Julian. I suggested
diffidently that maybe the old servants were suffering from a spot of
the same trouble.

The old man glanced at me sharply. “You’re very shrewd,” he said. “Yes,
between ourselves, I have—ah—heard certain rumours that would confirm
that. Of course the old folk were devoted to their first mistress; she
was a very gracious lady. Well, Miss Brayton, I will leave you to do
what you can. I shall call later in the week, but never hesitate to
appeal to me for advice if you need it.”

We parted fellow conspirators. I was full of a new importance. My task
was not going to be easy, but I’d made up my mind to attempt it.

On the stairs I passed Mitzi. She had one of her mistress’s evening
gowns, which she was taking down to be pressed. It was a lovely thing, a
shaft of silver slashed with flame, and yet, as I looked at it, I felt
very sorry for Rita.

All the same, despite the instructions, I was not permitted to see my
patient; Mrs. Munsen attended to that. Whenever I enquired, the answer
was always an excuse. Colonel Fayre was reading, Colonel Fayre was
sleeping, Colonel Fayre did not wish to be disturbed. In the end, I took
my difficulties to Rita.

She listened to me with half an ear and told me not to worry. I took it
that she did not want to discuss her husband with me, and I sympathised
with her. If she wanted to leave all that to the doctor, I was willing.

It occurred to me that I ought to speak to Madame Clothilde and make
what apologies I could. To my relief, her voice softened when she heard
mine.

“Gillian!” Her use of my Christian name was an innovation. “How sweet of
you to ring me, dear. What? Angry? Don’t be absurd, child. Mrs. Fayre
rang me first thing this morning and explained. Of course I was only too
pleased to release you to her, and she’s sending me a check for the hat.
What an awkward accident; it caught on fire, I hear? Do bring her in if
ever you get a chance, and I say, dear, if ever you need a little model
for yourself, just come right in and I’ll fix you up.”

There was no stopping her. When at last she let me go, I was convinced
of two things. One was that Rita was far more prompt and efficient than
she had led me to suppose, and the other, that if ever I left her,
Clothilde, for one, never would forgive me. Whatever happened to me, I
never could go back there.

I was in the studio, putting the finishing touches to some flowers that
had been delivered, when the man Rita had introduced as Ferdie wandered
in. He mixed himself a pink gin from the trolley Rudkin always wheeled
in at six o’clock whether anyone was about or not, sat down, and watched
me, his eyes idle and introspective. Apart from wishing him good
evening, I did not speak.

“That’s a damned shame, you know,” he said finally, and waved his glass
toward the two oval bookcases whose glazed doors were set into the
panelling on either side of the fireplace. To complete the modern decor,
they were filled with bottles and glasses instead of the books or china
for which they had been intended. The effect was not altogether happy,
rather like the wine department in a store. “That sort of thing’s all
right in a smaller place,” he said. “In a room like this, it’s cheap.
Don’t you think so?”

It was, of course, but I did not feel like discussing Rita’s taste with
a stranger, and I said something safe about the moulding’s being
interesting.

“It is,” he said. “I like it. It’s all the original stuff. Silly to try
to make it look like a gin palace. Well, here goes. I shan’t hang about
if no one’s coming. This place is like a perishing morgue now the
invalid is installed. You ought to have been here three months ago when
he was still in hospital. We had some parties then. Phew! I don’t know
how Rita got her menagerie of old servants to stay.” He got up and
lounged to the door. “It’s spoiled the place,” he said. “It used to be
like a good country club, at any rate. Now it’s like a night club with
the receiver in. I’ve never met Fayre. I hear he’s a dreadful wet.”

I murmured that I thought he was a very sick man.

“Not so sick as I am,” said Ferdie with feeling. “The place is getting
me down.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

I dined alone again, and it was occurring to me that I should have to do
real battle with Mrs. Munsen if I was to perform my one specified task
of the day and administer Colonel Fayre’s sedative, when she appeared.
She followed Rudkin into the room with the coffee and stood respectfully
just inside the doorway. There were candles on the table, and as the
light flickered on her face, I saw how much she resembled the old
butler. The likeness was so pronounced that I stared at them.

“Are you brother and sister?” I said.

The question startled her, and for an instant she was almost human.
“Yes, miss. He’s a little older than I am. We’ve been here sixty years
between us.”

“That’s wonderful,” I said, with honesty. “You must have seen a lot of
changes.”

I wanted to hear her talk of the old Mrs. Fayre, who had caught my
imagination, but as if she resented my intrusion, she froze again.

“If you please, miss, I’ve come to show you the pantry where you’re to
make the master’s coffee.”

I got up at once. This was more like it. I was going to have a little
co-operation at last. She held out a key to me, and I looked at it in
surprise.

“Does it have to be locked?”

“Mrs. Fayre gave orders. You’re to have the key so that we—so that no
one interferes.”

Her face was stony, and I sympathised with her indignation. “I’m sure
she didn’t mean you to take it quite like that, Mrs. Munsen,” I said.
“If you’ve been here thirty years, you must know best how things ought
to be done.”

It was flagrant soft-soaping, and she was not blandished by it; her
small black eyes were contemptuous. “Perhaps you’ll follow me, miss,”
she said.

I did what I was told. I had the bottle of tablets the doctor had given
me. It was a small yellow phial of the familiar kind and was labelled
carefully in just the spiky, old-fashioned hand one would have expected
of Dr. Crupiner. To placate the old woman I showed it to her, and she
unbent sufficiently to read the directions aloud. “_Colonel Julian
Fayre. Four to be taken in a warm drink an hour before bedtime._”

“Perhaps you’d do it tonight,” I said. “I’ll watch you.”

She nodded agreement, but her lips were set tight and her eyes were
still contemptuous. If I was going to make any headway here at all, it
was going to take time. I decided to go carefully.

                 *        *        *        *        *

It was on the fifth evening that I made my appeal to her. We were in the
pantry after yet another lonely dinner, for Rita never seemed to be in
the house unless there was a party on. I was making the coffee.

The pantry was a charming affair and had been, I suspected, the original
stillroom. Now it was all apple-green paint and antique spice cupboards;
the china was Victorian with a thousand tiny rosebuds scattered over its
duck’s-egg glaze.

Mrs. Munsen and I had fallen into a curious arrangement. Although the
place was technically mine and I certainly kept the key, she always came
with me when I went into it. She collected me about a quarter of nine,
and we went into it together; then she stood back while I took down the
green-and-gold tin of coffee. It was called “Kaffir,” I remember, and
had a picture of a native on the lid. She watched while I boiled the
milk and counted the tablets into the steaming cup. Then I carried the
tray, a little yellow one from the rack above the cupboard, and we
processioned down the corridor to the music room. She knocked and I
entered, and she waited outside until Julian Fayre had thanked me
gravely and I had come out again. It was a fantastic waste of time, of
course, but that seemed about as far as I was going to get. Rita was
being obeyed to the letter, but that was all.

Every day I made some attempt to do a little more, but with no result.
Once I took the bull by the horns and went to the music room uninvited.
Julian Fayre was polite but very cold and very definite, and the
half-amused, half-pitying smile he gave me was very hard to bear.

On that fifth evening, therefore, after I had lighted the spirit stove,
I turned to the housekeeper. “Mrs. Munsen,” I began cautiously, “why do
you imagine I am here?”

To my amazement she blushed. “I should have thought you’d have known
that far better than I do, miss,” she said.

Although I did not understand the inference, it was obvious that it was
unpleasant, and my smouldering anger suddenly took fire. I am not
naturally loquacious, but on this occasion I was at least expressive. I
retailed the entire story, finishing with the doctor’s instructions.

“There!” I said, pink and breathless. “Those are the simple facts. I
have been brought into this house solely because I am a person who can
be trusted. Why do you persist in treating me as if that were the one
thing I am not?”

I could see that I had shaken her. She dropped some of her hostility;
she was very curious. “Is that all you were told, miss?” Her eyes held
mine as if they would draw the truth out of me.

I met her openly enough. After all, I had nothing to hide. “That’s all,”
I said. “So there’s no mysterious danger in me, is there?”

She did not answer that, but after a pause she said slowly, “It’s a
funny thing, but only yesterday Rudkin said he didn’t believe you knew
what you were doing.”

“What?”

“Nothing, miss. I shouldn’t have spoken.”

I could get no more out of her, and that evening our nightly ritual was
repeated in every detail; but she must have spoken to her master, for
the next day he sent for me. I played to him for an hour, and afterward
we had tea together.

                 *        *        *        *        *

That was the beginning; but the task was not over; the ice was still
pretty thick. I worked hard and watched my step all the time.

If Julian wanted to talk, I listened; if he wanted a book, I found it,
and in my spare time read it myself in case he should care to discuss
it. I tried hard to discover anything that might interest him, and I
took Mrs. Munsen into my confidence at every point.

Very soon I forgot it was part of the job and began to enjoy it. Any
improvement he showed gave me genuine delight, and on his bad days I was
as disappointed as he. All the same, our relationship was still oddly
impersonal. He treated me as a child treats a visiting governess, with
politeness but no familiarity, and I was careful not to demand any more.
This went on for about a fortnight, I suppose, during which time the
servants grew less unfriendly, Rita hardly appeared, and the doctor was
encouraging. The change came one afternoon. I had gone to him with the
evening papers. Like most men who have been overseas for any length of
time, he had a morbid conviction that he was out of touch with the
ordinary happenings of the day, and we were correcting that by a study
of the news far more thorough than necessary. That day the Education
Bill was in the headlines, and he began to talk of schools.

“I knew a charming old man with the same name as yours once,” he said,
looking at me. “I always remember him because he once came to the
station with my father to see me off, and he gave me a sovereign—not a
note, but gold. He had a queer name, Grey Brayton. Ever heard of him?”

“Uncle Grey,” I said, and after that no one could have kept me quiet. It
was so long since I had had anyone to talk to that I chattered on about
the old man until all my loneliness and regret for his death seemed to
escape and become dispersed in the flood of words.

“My hat, you adored him, didn’t you?” Julian said. “I didn’t realise you
were his niece.”

“I loved him,” I said. “He was the only family I had, you see.”

He raised his head at that, and there was startled enquiry in his eyes.
“Do you mean to say you have no one who belongs to you, no one at all?”

“No,” I said cheerfully. “If I die tomorrow, there’s no one to write
to—except Sally, perhaps.”

“Sally?”

I was only too pleased to talk; he heard all about Sally, and after
that, for good measure, even about Mrs. Austin and Madame Clothilde.

When I had finished, he said an odd thing. “You’re completely alone,
aren’t you? Is that why my wife picked on you, I wonder?”

“I don’t think so,” I put in quickly. “I think she just did it out of
kindness. She knew me at school.”

He made no comment on that, but still eyed me curiously, as if a new and
worrying idea had occurred to him. It was the first time I ever had
heard him speak of Rita, and as far as I knew, he had not seen her since
I had been in the house. Although they lived under the same roof, their
lives hardly could have been more separate. He did not pursue the
subject, however, and when he spoke again, it was about his own
childhood.

After that we had many talks; our lives grew imperceptibly closer. I
never had been happier, and his health began to improve. The bad days
became more and more infrequent, and Dr. Crupiner was delighted. I saw
less and less of Rita; if she was busy, so was I, and although we smiled
at each other as we passed in the hall and met sometimes at the dinner
table, there were always guests, and I don’t think I had a single talk
with her.

Henri Phoebus lived quite near us, I discovered. He always was dropping
in, and his exertions as Rita’s entrepreneur appeared to be
considerable. She was going to have an exhibition of her paintings, he
told me once, and he was up to his eyes in work preparing for it. But
although I saw him fairly often, he never made another pass at me, and I
always got the impression that he was slightly uncomfortable in my
presence, as if I frightened him a little, which was ridiculous. So far
as I knew, Julian had no idea of his existence. I did not enlighten him.

One night when I was sitting with Julian after dinner, before it was
time to make the Kaffir, he began to talk about his mother, and after
that the house became twice as real to me. It was hers, of course; only
the studio reflected Rita’s taste. The rest was just as old Mrs. Fayre
had left it, and from Julian’s description I began to fancy I could see
her about the house almost as clearly as old Rudkin did. She had been a
straight-backed, handsome old lady, with a firm voice and a smile that
must have been like Julian’s, sudden and oddly sweet. He had adored her.
He did not say so, but it was apparent in every word he spoke, and when
he mentioned her death, his face grew grim.

“She died in such pain,” he said savagely, as if the injustice of that
cruelty still rankled with him, “the year before I went overseas.”

“Only a year? Then she must have known Rita.”

“No.” He was frowning, and he looked so bitter I wished I had not
spoken. “No, I met my—wife two months before I sailed.”

So that was how it had happened. I often had speculated; now it seemed
clear to me that there had been one of those violent love affairs that
were so common in the catastrophic years, love affairs that all too
often had this kind of ending. I thought I understood all about it, and
I was tremendously sorry for both of them. To change the subject, I
remarked that Mrs. Munsen had told me she had been in the house for
thirty years.

“Mary?” he said. “Good Lord, no. She’s lying; it must be nearer fifty.
She’s getting skittish about her age. Her husband was the gardener here,
and he died before I was born. She nursed me when I was in long
clothes.”

“She’s a wonderful old person,” I said.

“Isn’t she?” he agreed. “But the great character was Harriet, mother’s
personal maid. You really ought to have seen her, Gillie. She married
Rudkin just to keep him in the family, or so my father always said. She
was a terrific old party, and she lived for Mother. They were the same
age, and she died only six weeks after Mother did. When she went, too,
and I had to go abroad, I had no idea what to do with everyone. It
worried the life out of me.”

I caught a glimpse then of something that had not occurred to me before.
I never had thought that a house like this with a company of old
servants like Mary and Lily and Rudkin might be almost as much of a
responsibility as a family. I was going to say so when his next remark
diverted me.

“Have you ever heard Mary sing?”

“Sing?” I echoed, laughing.

He nodded, his face lighting up with pure mischief. “Rather rude old
music-hall songs. She used to sing them to me when I was a child, and my
mother was scandalised. We’ll get her in here one night and make her do
it again, shall we?”

We did. A few days later, when everyone else was safely out, Julian and
I got old Mrs. Munsen in her black frock, with her little watch shaking
on her chest, sitting back in a big chair and bellowing, “The captain
with his whiskers gave a sly glance at me,” in a surprisingly strong, if
cracked, old country voice.

She betrayed a merriness I had not dreamed was in her, and she giggled
like a girl when Julian teased her. It was an innocent but genuinely
uproarious evening, and we all laughed until the tears streamed down our
cheeks.

I saw him that night for the first time, I think; at least, that was
when I first recognised him for what he was, not a burnt-out war hero,
but a young man happy and heart-breakingly handsome, with a life before
him. I went to bed feeling oddly breathless, but joyful and excited. He
was really getting well at last, and it was I who was doing it.

                 *        *        *        *        *

After that, I suppose, the end was inevitable; yet I did not see it
coming, and when it happened, it descended on me with all the cruelty of
surprise.

I had been there nine weeks and three days. It was on a real midwinter
afternoon, when there was snow on the lawns and slush in the roads, the
air crisp, and indoors the fires burning brightly. In the morning I had
been more than happy. Life had achieved that state of overpacked
goodness that is delight. Rita had let me know that she was pleased with
me, the servants smiled on me whenever they saw me, and Dr. Crupiner had
startled himself even more than he had me by actually patting me on the
head in an excess of professional approval. Julian was better; his
weight was beginning to go up, and he was alive and interested.

That afternoon he was in the library with Mr. Churchman, his attorney
who managed his affairs. I was waiting tea for them in the music room,
where we spent most of the time, because it was quiet and away from the
rest of the house.

I had turned up the lights and drawn the curtains, and the fire was
blazing. My only concern in the world at that moment was to prevent the
pup’s getting the scones. He was a recent acquisition, Rita loathed
animals, and we had to keep the dog, if not a secret, at least at the
stage of circumstantial rumour. He was a bull terrier, three months old,
fat as butter, with a couple of patches in the right places, and his
name was Stinker. We changed it to Tinker in polite society, but when we
were alone, Stinker it was.

He was fighting me for the scones and behaving abominably; his great
plump paws were scratching my neck while he made unsuccessful dabs at my
face with an urgent pink tongue. I was laughing and pushing him down
when we both, the dog and I, were aware that Julian had come in. He
stood in the doorway looking at us, and there was something in his eyes
I never had seen before. Stinker went thumping over to him, bouncing
round with his flurried-kitten technique, which was so funny in such a
fat dog; but for once he was ignored.

Julian shut the door and came over to me. He was still looking at me in
the new, odd way, which I longed and yet dreaded to see.

“Churchman couldn’t stay,” he said, and hesitated.

“Come and sit down,” I said hastily. “You’ll tire yourself with
business, and that’s just plain crazy when you’re getting well. Don’t
worry about anything. If you go broke, Mrs. Munsen and I will take up
charring. Stinker would be invaluable as a washing-up machine, if no one
took mustard.”

I was talking disjointed rubbish because I wanted time. I had seen that
the thing I had thrust far out of my mind was going to happen, not in
some faraway nebulous future, but now, this instant. I wanted it to
happen so badly that I could scarcely breathe, but I knew it was the one
thing that never must happen if I was to hold one shred of my present
happiness.

“Hold the animal while I pour,” I said.

“All right.”

He seized Stinker in mid-air and sat down with him, but I knew I had
only postponed it. When it came, it was far worse, yet much better than
I had dreamed, because he had faced it and been wise.

“Gillie,” he said, regarding me steadily, his thin face very grave, “I’m
afraid you’ve got to leave here, my dear, d’you know.”

I met his eyes. It was no good funking it. After that there was no need
for him to tell me any more.

The room smelled of flowers and the fresh, sweet scent of tea, and
because we were so quiet, the faint sound of the traffic reached us from
the road. I was miserable, yet behind it all recklessly and fiercely
happy. At that moment it was worth a lifetime’s banishment to know the
thing that only his eyes had told me.

“I’ve known for a long time that this would have to happen,” he said,
“and I’ve been putting it away from me, because I can’t think how I’m
going to get on without you, but just now, when I came in and saw you
here, by my fire, with that damned presumptuous pup, I——”

“Look,” I said quickly. “Don’t. Don’t say anything. Let me just go to
Rita and say I’m leaving.”

He was silent for a time, his eyes holding mine. “All right, Gillie,” he
said at last, and that was all.

I think I died a little just then.

Rita was out when I went to look for her, but I caught her at last in
her dressing room. From the instant I left the music room I realised I
should have to leave the house at once. There was dynamite in our
association, Julian’s and mine. Every hour of proximity meant pain for
both of us, and although we were being resolutely intelligent, it was
not easy. I did not trust myself.

I had some difficulty in getting in to see Rita. Mitzi was with her, and
they were busy with clothes. The sable cloak was out, so I assumed she
was off to yet another party. She was sitting at the dressing table
curling her lashes; her eyes were fixed on her reflection, and the
operation was a delicate one. She listened to my announcement without
showing that she had heard. She did not answer for a moment, but
finished turning the long black lashes upward and then laid down the
instrument, its silver rim making a little impatient click on the plate
glass.

“Darling Gillie,” she sighed, turning and taking my hands. She was
smiling as usual, but her deep voice had an edge to it. “I’m due down
the road in seven minutes. Come and see me tomorrow, and we’ll smooth
away all your little troubles. You must be finding life incredibly dull
here, I do know, my pet. But we’ll change all that, Rita promises.”

Dull! I could have laughed at her. She seemed suddenly so stupid sitting
there, making up her mature, hard face for Henri Phoebus and his
friends, when someone so tremendously worthwhile was being lost to her.

“I’m sorry,” I said. “I know it’s inconvenient, but I just wanted to
tell you I’m going. I couldn’t very well walk out without saying
good-bye.”

“But of course you’re not going. I’m delighted with you, you’re a
success, Gillie.”

“No, Rita,” I said. “Please. I do mean it. Thank you tremendously, and
good-bye.”

I tried to sound convincing, and succeeded. The moment when the fact
dawned on her was visible. Her friendliness vanished as if it had been
discarded like a garment, and the angry colour spread up her face to the
roots of her hair. Mitzi was sent out of the room with a gesture, and
Rita turned on me.

“You hopeless little fool,” she said. “What the hell’s the matter now?”

I had made up my mind that it would be easier to give no explanation. It
was a free country, and I was going. I was grateful, and I was sorry if
I was being a nuisance, but it was no use talking to me. I would leave
the house now, tonight; I felt it would be better that way, and I let
her think what she would of me.

Rita got up. I had heard of viragoes but I never had met one before. She
was so strong, so unexpectedly coarse under her sophistication, that I
was startled and, I suppose, shocked. I began to understand what Julian
must have discovered about her after he had married her.

“Now will you go to your room?” She was breathless, and there were ugly
lines round her mouth. “I’ll see you in the morning.”

“No,” I said. “I’m sorry you’re taking it like this, Rita, but really
I’m afraid there is nothing I can say. I——”

The rest of the sentence was lost, because she hit me. It was a savage
flip across my face with the back of her hand. The pain was sharp and
incredibly insulting, and I froze at it.

“Very well,” I said, and turned away.

She sprang between me and the door, and behind her fury I was aware of
something new. There was a calculating, dangerous mentality there,
powerful and overwhelming. “You will stay.”

“No, Rita.”

“I see.” She picked up the dress Mitzi had laid out for her and pitched
it across the room. It was done almost quietly, with a new, controlled
deliberation more alarming than her raging. “Go and pack. You can leave
in the morning. I hope I never see you again.”

It was on the tip of my tongue to insist that I should go at once, but I
knew I had won my point and the extra night seemed to matter very
little.

I had opened the door when she caught my wrist. She was trembling with
something that was almost excitement, and now there was urgency rather
than anger in her voice. “Tomorrow I shall get someone to take your
place, but meantime I won’t have the rhythm of the house upset. Until
tomorrow you’ll do your work in the ordinary way. Understand?”

“All right,” I said, and she took, I thought, a particularly mean
advantage of me.

“I shan’t go out tonight. You’ve ruined my evening. When you make
Julian’s coffee tonight, bring me a cup of it. I shall be in the studio,
I expect.”

I assumed that she was emphasising the fact that I had been no more than
a servant to her. It was true, after all.

“Very good,” I said grimly, and left.

As soon as I reached the corridor, I saw we had raised the house. Mrs.
Munsen was waiting for me at the top of the staircase, and I caught the
flicker of Rudkin’s coattail.

My unnatural calm persisted. Luckily Mary Munsen appeared to understand,
and when she insisted on bringing my evening meal on a tray to my room,
she did not try to make me talk. She was a wise old woman. I think she
knew how things were.

I felt frozen inside; I could not think, I could not plan, I could not
even regret. I packed alone, refusing the help of the openly tearful
Lily, and I worked on mechanically until I noticed that my travelling
clock said a quarter to nine. I came alive then and realized just what
was really happening. I was going away. It had ended in disaster. This
was the last time——

By the time I reached the pantry I was crying so helplessly I hardly
could fit the key into the lock. My first setback occurred when I found
the light would not go on, and I assumed the bulb had burned out. By
leaving the door wide, I found I could get just enough of the corridor
lighting to see what I was doing. Anyway, it hardly mattered, as my
tears were blinding me and the place was as familiar as my hand.

I was furious with myself for crying, but I could not stop, and I
dreaded going to Rita with my face swollen—or to Julian, either, for
that matter. I prepared the two trays—Julian’s little yellow one and
another like it, only pink, for Rita. I had filled both cups and was
counting Julian’s tablets into his when I heard steps in the corridor.
Mrs. Munsen long since had ceased to superintend my coffee-making, but I
thought she had come along this evening to sympathise until I saw it was
Rudkin.

“Light gone, miss?” he enquired, his tone as commiserating and regretful
as his sister’s had been. “Let’s see.” He hopped onto a stool with a
surprising agility and touched the bulb, which came on immediately.
“Only twisted,” he reported cheerfully. “I came along, miss, because I
wondered if you’d like me to take Mrs. Fayre’s coffee to her.”

So they had heard it all, had they? I was not surprised. Rita had a
penetrating voice when she raised it. His kindness finished me, and I
turned away so that he could not see my face.

“I don’t know if she’d like that,” I murmured.

“You leave that to me, miss.” He sounded so very valiant.

“It’s the p-pink tray,” I sobbed, and I heard the cup rattle as he took
it up and swept off with it. I followed blindly with the other, and I do
not remember getting from the pantry to the music room; but when I
entered, the lights were down and Julian was sitting alone with Stinker
by the firelight.

“Mary?”

“No. It’s me, Julian.”

“Gillie.” He got up at once, came over to me, and took the tray from my
hands. I could not see his face, only his tall, thin figure bending
toward me. I did not attempt to explain what had happened, but he
answered me as though I had spoken. “I heard,” he said. “I’m so sorry,
Gillie. I do apologise for her.”

There was something in the way he said it that was almost frightening. I
caught a glimpse of his hatred, and its intensity surprised me.

“Drink your coffee before it gets cold,” I said and watched him take the
cup.

The firelight was flickering, and the pup sighed heavily, his nose
between his paws.

I never can think of that moment without a thrill of pure terror.

It passed, the cup was back on its tray, and we stood near each other in
the warm gloom. There was so much we needed to say and so very little we
must.

“I shall go early in the morning,” I said. “Good-bye.”

“Good-bye, Gillie,” he whispered steadily. He went with me to the door
and held it open for me. As I passed him, he gave me an envelope.

“No refusals,” he said quickly. “No, Gillie. Please. I couldn’t bear it.
You’ve got to take this just so I know you’re all right until—until
later on. Please, my dearest.”

So I had the envelope crushed in my hand when I got to my room. It
contained a check for two hundred and fifty pounds and a note to a bank
manager instructing him to open an account for me.

I went to bed and tried to sleep. I never should see him, or the house,
or Mrs. Munsen again, I thought. This was the end. But I was wrong.

At seven o’clock next morning the whole place was aroused by Mitzi’s
screaming. She had found Rita’s bed empty, and on going down to the
studio had discovered her lying there on the couch. She was cold by
then; her eyes, their pupils contracted to pin points, were wide open.
At her side was the cup on the pink tray, which I had sent her. It was
empty.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Everybody knew. Everybody in the whole house knew at once, without being
told, that Death was in that cup. Everybody, that is, except me. And I
had prepared it.

I could not believe that Rita was dead, although Mitzi had shouted the
information until it echoed up the stairs and down the corridors,
dragging us all from our beds.

I tried to make sense of the screaming, and then, as the words slowly
took shape, I scrambled up, threw on a dressing gown, and ran out to the
head of the staircase.

It was still dark, of course, but the hall lights were on, and the cold
dawn, appearing greyly at the tall windows, made the scene look
different, oddly foreign and unnatural.

As I glanced down, I saw Rudkin come out of the studio. He was
trembling, and there were bright spots of colour on his cheekbones. He
was half supporting Mitzi, who looked about to faint.

She was a square, stolid woman, who ran to dark hair round the mouth
despite a fantastic blonde creation on her head. But now she seemed to
have grown old, and she walked uncertainly, as if she were not sure
where she was going.

They were out in the centre of the floor before they suddenly looked up
at me. I met two pairs of frightened eyes, but even then I did not
recognize the suspicion there. I was shocked, but only by death. No hint
of any further horror reached me, and it did not enter my head that I
might be in any way involved.

“Is it true?” I asked.

Mitzi made an inarticulate sound, and her eyes flashed at me. She opened
her mouth to speak, but the old man silenced her.

“Go back to your room at once, miss,” he said sharply to me. “Don’t come
down. It’s no sight for you.”

There was a startled peremptoriness in the order that was authoritative,
but I only imagined he thought I should not interfere as I was not one
of the family.

“But are you sure?” I persisted, glancing fearfully toward the studio.
“It doesn’t seem possible. Are you sure, Rudkin, that she really is——”

Mitzi began to laugh horribly, and the old man shook her arm, silencing
her abruptly.

“I am quite certain, miss,” he said grimly. “Go back, if you please.”

The whole house was alive by this time. Doors were opening, and I could
hear hushed voices and sharp questions on all sides. I went slowly to my
room and stood in the doorway, trying to guess what was happening from
the rustlings and whisperings downstairs.

I assumed I was forgotten. It never occurred to me that the name on the
lips of everyone who came out of that tomb of a studio was mine.

The realisation, when it did come, was terrifying. I was still in my
dressing gown, lingering half in and half out of my bedroom, when there
were swift footsteps on the stairs, and the next moment Julian came
striding down the corridor toward me.

My first thought was that he looked like a skeleton again, his silk gown
flapping around his long legs, his fair hair tousled, and his eyes pits
of misery. There was something else in his eyes, too, part of which,
thank God, was disbelief.

“Julian,” I began eagerly, then was silent before his expression.

He caught my shoulders and thrust me into the room, closing the door
behind him. “Gillie,” he said huskily. “Oh, Gillie, what have you done?”

I drew back from his eyes, which were frightening in their wretchedness.
“Done?” I echoed stupidly.

He put both hands on my shoulders, and his fingers bit into my flesh. I
could feel him shaking, but his eyes never left mine. They peered
searchingly into mine, determined yet dreading to see the truth there.
“Gillie, my darling girl, what did you put in that cup?”

It took me a second or two to understand what he meant, and then I
understood it all. I saw the whole thing clearly in one dreadful,
cinematic flash.

Rita had been poisoned. I had sent her a cup of coffee last thing at
night. It is notorious that coffee disguises the taste of anything. The
motive? Who than I had a better one?

For an instant, as the full realisation flooded over me, I was
panic-stricken. I felt my eyes widening as Julian stared into them, and
my mouth grew dry. Then, quite suddenly, it seemed absurd.

“Nothing,” I said calmly. “Only coffee. That didn’t kill her, Julian.
You had some yourself.”

My voice was very quiet; its naturalness comforted even me. I knew I was
not guilty, nor even had I let the ghastly thought of doing it once
creep through my mind.

He read something of my reasoning in my face, for I felt the tension go
out of him, and he blinked at me like a man waking from a nightmare.
“Oh, God bless you, Gillie,” he said shakily. “Bless your glorious
sanity, my dear. I’m desperately sorry. Forgive me. I ought to have
known. The idea’s too monstrous; I ought not to have credited it even
for a moment. The whole thing has happened so suddenly that it’s knocked
all the sense out of me. At first there seemed to be no other
explanation.” His hands slid off my shoulders and took my hands.

“It’s all right,” I said, struggling to comfort him. “It’s all right,
Julian. Only, don’t go and get ill again. You see——”

My voice faded as the door behind us opened, and Mrs. Munsen stood there
watching us. Julian let go my hands very slowly, and we both turned to
face her.

It was obvious that she had been disturbed while dressing. The throat of
her familiar frock was open, exposing an old-fashioned underbodice. The
sight was somehow very shocking, and it emphasised the disaster in a way
nothing else could have. Her face was chalky save for a network of tiny
veins, and her mouth twisted when she spoke. Her words were unexpected,
and they shook me. She was not even angry, she was frightened. “The
doctor’s on his way, Master Julian,” she muttered. “For the love of God,
boy, go out of this room. Don’t be seen with her now.”

Had she taken us by the shoulders and knocked our heads together, she
could not have brought our position home to us more clearly.

Julian winced, and then the colour poured up over his face. “All right,
Mary,” he said. “I’ll go now.” But before he went, he took my hands
again and looked down at me earnestly. “Don’t be frightened, Gillie, and
for heaven’s sake, forgive me. It will be all right, darling, I swear it
will. Try not to worry.”

Mrs. Munsen stood holding the door for him. I could see that she was
listening for any new sound downstairs; her very poise betrayed the
urgency she felt. She sighed audibly, but unconsciously, as he left, but
she did not follow him. Instead, she closed the door and put her back
against it. For a moment she stood looking at me, her small black eyes
oddly speculative. “Keep quiet, and I’ll help you,” she said distinctly.

I stared at her in amazement.

She ignored me and went on, still speaking in the same quiet, clear
tone. “I’ll help you all I can, and I’m not a fool, but don’t you dare
drag _him_ into it. He never knew anything of this. I’ve known him ever
since he was a baby, and no one will ever convince me different. Save
him, and I’ll help you.”

“But I know nothing of it either,” I protested. “Honestly, Mrs. Munsen,
you’re wrong. You must believe me. I’ve done nothing.”

She shook her head at me. “Keep quiet,” she persisted. “Say nothing at
all. That’s your safest way.”

“But you’re being absurd.”

“No.” She opened the door and stood listening a moment. When she closed
it again, she laid a finger on her lips. “They’re all downstairs. You
get dressed and stay here.”

“Very well,” I said, “but you’re making a ridiculous mistake. There was
nothing in that cup of coffee when it left my hands. For God’s sake,
Mrs. Munsen, do I look like a murderess?”

Her reply silenced me and sent a thin, cold trickle through my heart.
“You had so much to gain,” she said flatly. “I hated her, too, but I’m
not young and I’m not in love. Keep your head, keep quiet, and keep him
out of it. I’ll help you.”

With that she left me, and I crept slowly into my clothes, feeling cold
and sick with apprehension. That calm assumption of my guilt was
something I never had envisaged.

I think I expected the police to come and arrest me there and then, but
my first visitor was old Dr. Crupiner.

He came tottering along the corridor, and I got a chair for him before I
even spoke, he looked so old and unsteady. He sank into it gratefully
and looked up at me with faded, trouble-filled eyes. “A tragedy,” he
said. “A great tragedy, Miss Brayton. They’ve told you, of course?”

“Yes,” I said. “I can hardly believe it. She was so—so well yesterday
when I saw her.”

He nodded. “Poor lady. She was so wonderfully strong. Remarkably full of
vitality. I don’t think I’ve ever met anyone with greater energy, and
now——God bless my soul! It doesn’t bear thinking of.” His conceit had
vanished under the shock, and he was more human than I ever had known
him to be.

“What was it?” I demanded. “Why did it happen?”

He came back to earth with a start and sat eying me dubiously. “Miss
Brayton, I must talk to you very seriously. You made her some coffee
last night, I understand?”

“Yes. Or, at least, she had some of the coffee I made for Colonel
Fayre.”

“Out of the same pot.”

“Yes.”

“Did he drink his?”

“Yes, I saw him.”

“Ah.” He was silent for a time. “Miss Brayton,” he began at last, “we
have sent for the police, and I do not know if I am exceeding my
authority by telling you this, but—ah—I have made up my mind to
confide in you. In my opinion, there is absolutely no doubt that Mrs.
Fayre met her death from an overdose of some very powerful narcotic
after drinking the coffee last night, and there is absolutely no
evidence that she administered it herself.”

“No evidence?” I murmured stupidly.

“No phial,” he said. “No box. No one has any knowledge of her possessing
any drugs. I myself have attended her recently, and I should say she was
the last person ever to have recourse to anything of that kind.”

“Then you think that whatever it was was in the coffee?”

“My dear young lady, I don’t know. I don’t think anything. I remember
only that Mrs. Fayre once told me that you were thought to be a little
vague at times, a little absent-minded.”

“No,” I protested. “No. Besides, how could I? Where could I get such a
thing? Oh no, Dr. Crupiner, there was nothing in the coffee I sent her.”

He got up stiffly and sighed. I only half understood that he was trying
to show me a way out. “That means you’re accusing Rudkin, you know,” he
said gently.

“But of course I’m not!” I ejaculated. “I’m not accusing anyone. I don’t
believe it’s happened. I don’t see how it could.”

He shook his head at me just as Mary Munsen had done. “Think,” he said
softly. “Just think it all out very carefully. Yes, Rudkin?”

The butler had tapped at the door and now put his head in. He did not
look at me. The doctor appeared to expect him.

“I will come down,” he said. “They’re here, are they? Miss Brayton, you
will oblige me by staying exactly where you are for the time being.
Good-bye. I shall see you again.”

He went out with a great deal of dignity, and I was left alone once
more. I did my best to hang onto sanity. I realized it must be a
mistake, just as Julian had said, but it was a very frightening one. I
hoped the police would hurry and make the real explanation clear to
everyone. That was with the logical part of my mind; the rest, the
emotional part, was just frightened, and my premonition of danger was
very strong.

It seemed hours before the police came to see me. The winter sunshine
was strong that morning, and it lighted up the room with a wistful,
watery brightness and fell on my packed suitcases, making them look
shabbier than ever. At last there was a knock. I opened the door at once
and stepped back to admit the man who stood there.

He was not in the least what I had expected. There was nothing of the
stolid, keen-eyed British policeman about him. He was thin and a little
bent, with a neat grey head and shabby, tidy clothes. He wandered in
without speaking, and I saw a face frankly ugly but not unengaging, with
a wide mouth, too full of teeth, and pale, kindly eyes.

“You’ll be Gillian Brayton,” he said in a deep, quiet voice, which was
not in the least alarming, and then added devastatingly, “The girl who
made the coffee.”

I glanced at him sharply. He was smiling a little, but I did not
respond. “Yes, I made it.”

“And you’re a sort of companion-help here, but no one knows what your
duties are, except that you make coffee,” he continued, looking around
the room, his eyes taking in every detail.

I did not know what to reply to that, so I kept silent. It was true in a
way, of course, but it sounded extraordinary when he put it so baldly.

“And you’ve got the sack?”

“No,” I protested hastily. “Not exactly. I—I resigned last night.”

“Resigned,” he echoed flatly, and I began to fear him. He possessed
singleness of purpose; he was going somewhere, looking for something,
and all the ordinary side issues of human relationship did not interest
him. He sat down suddenly on my bed and looked up at me, his head
lolling back, his great toothy mouth jutting forward. “Tell me how you
made the coffee,” he said. His tone was affable and slightly
condescending.

I told him all about it, going over each point in detail.

He listened attentively. “She died after drinking it, you know,” he
said.

“So they told me.”

“Who did?” That came very sharply.

“The doctor and Mrs. Munsen.” I remembered just in time that it might be
better not to mention Julian’s name.

“That’s the housekeeper? Nice old girl. Wasn’t broken-hearted to hear
her mistress was dead. Nor are you, are you?”

The final question came so directly that it made me jump. “I haven’t
quite realised it’s happened yet,” I said truthfully.

“No, I don’t suppose you have. Who do you imagine I am?”

“A police inspector.”

“Wrong. Superintendent. Higher grade. The housekeeper tell you I was
coming?”

“No. The doctor told me that.”

He sighed, and unfolded himself lazily. “I get a lot of help,” he said
so drily that I almost smiled, and then saw that he was expecting it of
me. “Never mind, you’re right, in the main. The name is Alexander
McNaught, Divisional Superintendent. A very remarkable man in many
ways.”

I did smile at that, and he seemed surprised.

“There is little amusing about me,” he said seriously. “It’s my job to
ask questions. We’ll go and inspect this pantry of yours. Is it correct
that you have the only key?”

“I believe so.” I showed him the key lying where I always kept it in a
small porcelain bowl on my mantel.

He took it without enthusiasm and compared it with the one belonging to
the room. It was not the same, and he shrugged.

“Not every lock in the house is identical, anyway. That’s one small
dispensation. Come along. You lead the way.”

There were two or three people in the hall—a plain-clothes detective or
so and a uniformed constable, who all gave me the same ostentatiously
disinterested stare; and Rudkin, who smiled at me stoutly. So he was on
my side. That was something.

The door of the studio was shut. I glanced at its shining panels and
guessed what must lie behind them. It was the first time I really
comprehended that Rita was dead, I think, and I suppose I swayed a
little, for McNaught put a hand on my shoulder.

“No need to get seasick yet,” he said. “The boat hasn’t started. Is this
the door?” He unlocked it and stood aside for me to enter. “Keep your
arms to your sides. Don’t touch anything. Now, just tell me again
exactly what you did the last time you were in here.”

I repeated the story as carefully as I could, indicating each utensil as
I mentioned it. The little room was sunny now; the bright colours of
paint and china glistened familiarly with innocent prettiness. When I
came to the point at which I counted out the tablets, he stopped me.

“Where’s the bottle?”

“There.” I pointed to the phial. It was in its accustomed place, right
in front of the first shelf, just as I had left it. As my glance fell on
it, my heart jumped. The bottle looked exactly the same. It was just
about as full as it ought to have been, and I saw the small white
tablets showing faintly through the coloured glass. But the label was
wrong. The inscription was written in a spiky hand, but not quite the
same one, and there was less of it. As I bent forward to read it,
McNaught did too.

“_Mrs. Fayre. The Tablets. One when pain is most severe._”

“Oh, my God!” I heard the exclamation as if someone else had muttered
it, and McNaught caught me round the shoulders.

“What’s the matter?”

“It’s wrong,” I muttered, pointing to the bottle. “It’s different. It’s
not Julian’s.”

He turned me round to face him, his eyes hard and inquisitive. “Are
these the tablets you used last night?”

“I—don’t know.” Having made the admission, I had to explain. “It was
dark. I told you. I’ve been giving these tablets to Colonel Fayre every
night for weeks. It’s the only bottle of tablets here, and only I use
the pantry. I—I don’t read the label every time—why should I? I don’t
see what has happened. Where did this come from?”

“You are not prepared to swear that this was not the bottle you used
last night?”

“No. No, but——”

“But what?”

“But it was Julian’s cup in which I put the tablets. I took it to him
myself. These seem to be Rita’s, don’t they? It says ‘Mrs. Fayre’.”

“It would seem so,” he drawled, and bent forward again to peer at a
squiggle at the foot of the label. It was a date, I thought. I could not
read it.

McNaught made something of it, for, still keeping hold of me, he shouted
down the corridor for Rudkin. The old man came at once, as if he had
been waiting for the summons. He looked like a withered ghost blown
along by a fitful wind.

McNaught showed him the bottle. “Don’t touch that,” he commanded, “but
look at it. Ever seen it before?”

I was certain Rudkin was going to deny it, and his reaction amazed me.
He read the line aloud in an uncertain old voice, and then stood up,
blank astonishment on his face.

“God Almighty, sir,” he said.

“Recognise it?”

“Yes, sir. I thought it had been destroyed. When I last saw it, it was
in my wife’s hand.”

“Your wife’s? But she’s dead, isn’t she? Didn’t you tell me you were a
widower?”

“I did, sir, and I have been one for three years. My wife used to live
here. She was old Mrs. Fayre’s personal maid.”

McNaught expelled a long breath. “Old Mrs. Fayre died before her, then?
She was the Mrs. Fayre referred to on this label?”

“Yes, sir. That was the old mistress’s medicine.”

“I see.” He paused and looked from one to the other of us. “Did you know
about that?” he enquired of me.

“No,” I told him.

He sighed and returned to Rudkin. “Well, now. We’re talking about three
years ago. When your wife showed you this, did she say anything about
it? Try to remember exactly.”

Rudkin was unexpectedly clear. His eyes, which were black like his
sister’s, were excited yet remarkably guiltless. It was plain that he
was genuinely curious, and anxious to help. “It was the day after the
poor missus’ funeral,” he said. “We were all very low, and poor Harriet
was crying as she tidied up. I came in on her when she was sorting out
the poor lady’s things. She showed me this bottle and said what
wonderful stuff it was, and how she’d be grateful to the doctor as long
as she lived for giving it to the mistress. She said it wiped the pain
away.”

“Was that the doctor I saw this morning?”

“No, sir. His brother. He was gone, too, the poor old gentleman, before
the year was out.”

“Dead too?” McNaught was exasperated.

“Yes, sir. Him and the missus and Harriet all in one year.”

“Very sad, I’m sure. What did your wife propose to do with the bottle?
Do you know?”

“I don’t, sir. I told her to give it back to the doctor, in case it was
dangerous.”

“She doesn’t seem to have done so.”

“Apparently not, sir.”

“What did you think she did with it.”

Rudkin glanced up, and his black eyes were quick and speculative.
“Knowing Harriet, I think she hid it, sir, somewhere in the house,
thinking it might come in useful sometime. She was like that, was
Harriet.”

“Have you ever seen it since?”

“No, sir. Never. Not till now.”

McNaught was not satisfied. “I find that curious,” he said. “A thing
doesn’t lie about a house for three years without someone’s noticing
it.”

“It might if it was hidden, sir. It’s a big house.”

The superintendent hunched his shoulders. He was growing more and more
depressed. “Maybe,” he agreed. “One more question. You don’t happen to
know what this _is_, do you?”

“I think I do, sir.” The old man’s face was working in his excitement.
“I believe it’s morphia. That’s what Harriet said it was.”

McNaught turned away from him and looked thoughtfully at me. “And you,
Miss Brayton,” he murmured, “do you happen to know offhand what is the
fatal dose of morphia?”

“No,” I breathed.

He went on looking at me curiously, almost quizzically. “I wonder,” he
said.

                 *        *        *        *        *

I spent the rest of that day in my room. They kept me there. I was not
under arrest, merely invited to stay there, and a plain clothes man was
stationed in the corridor to see that I accepted the invitation.

No one from the rest of the household was permitted to see me. When
Lily, who was all of a flutter, I suspect, came hurrying up with some
breakfast for me, the detective insisted on helping her, with all the
appearance of being obliging. He was a large, sloppy person with gentle
eyes and smile, and he sent her down and brought the tray to me. But
when I told him I would pour him some coffee if he got himself a cup, he
gave me a rather curious look.

However, McNaught had reckoned without Mrs. Munsen. There was a hot
linen press in my bathroom, where floor boards took out, so that one
could see down into the kitchen cupboard where the tea towels were
drying. I heard her tapping in there soon after Lily had gone down, and
I went in to find her standing on a chair to look up at me.

“I’m here,” she said, as if that were everything. “Don’t you go and get
frightened. He doesn’t know where he is yet.”

“What’s happening?” I whispered.

“She’s been taken away,” she murmured back. “He’s in the studio making
an office of it and having us in one after the other asking questions.
Cook’s gone now.”

“Has the doctor gone home?”

“Yes. Rudkin heard them talking in the hall. Something about looking up
his brother’s records. We’re all saying we didn’t know about the bottle
Harriet kept.”

“Is that true?”

“Yes, of course it is. We shan’t go lying. That Mitzi’s making trouble.
They caught her phoning to Dr. Phoebus.”

“Has he come round?”

“Not yet. Miss Gillie——”

“Yes?”

“You’ll remember what I told you. Keep Mister Julian out of it, dear.
He’s not strong enough to stand it. Promise me.”

“Yes.” I made the word resolute. “I promise you.”

She withdrew then, and I went back to the window, where I stood pressing
my forehead against the cold pane and striving to think clearly.
Whatever I had done, it had been a mistake. Surely, I thought, they must
see that. People weren’t convicted unjustly, not nowadays.
Circumstantial evidence wasn’t everything; besides, there was so little
of that, unless they got hold of a motive.

There was no point in deceiving myself about the motive. I had the best
one in the world, or I would have if Julian and I had not been the
people we were. As it was, there was nothing between us, nothing that
conceivably could be falsely construed.

Nothing. And then, and only then, did I remember the check and the
letter to the bank manager. I had not thought of them since the night
before.

I went shakily across the room to the lowboy where my bag lay. I could
not believe I had been such a fool as to forget them: but I had, and
what was worse, I had left them in the room when I went down to the
pantry with the superintendent. My fingers were so unsteady I could
hardly get the bag open, and when at last I did and stared into its
empty depths, I was cold to my bones.

They had searched the room and found them and now the damning things
were downstairs for anyone to draw conclusions from.

                 *        *        *        *        *

When lunchtime came, the detective brought me another tray. “We have to
save the lady’s steps,” he said with a heavy jocularity that would not
have deceived a baby.

I could not eat, and I could not think. If I had been guilty, I might at
least have been able to plan. As it was, I was helpless. I thought about
Julian and found myself praying that, whatever happened, the experience
would not make him ill again. I don’t think I remembered Rita at all.

It was nearly three when at last they came for me. The room was in
shadow, and I was stiff and chilly when the detective put his head in to
tell me I was wanted.

“Now it’s coming. Now they’re going to arrest me.” The words sounded as
clearly in my ears as if I had spoken them. I wondered if I ought to
appeal to anybody, or if Uncle Grey’s old solicitors would appear for
me. Remembering them, I thought I might almost be better off if they
refused.

The first thing I saw as I entered the studio was the envelope that had
contained Julian’s check. It lay on the mirror-topped table, which the
superintendent had made his desk. It was set there so prominently I knew
he intended me to see it.

I picked it up. “This was in my bag.”

He raised his eyebrows. “We’re keeping it safe,” he said drily. He was
sitting behind the table on one of the white Empire chairs, which made
him look dustier than ever, and presently he grinned at me. It was not
the reception I had expected, and his opening gambit was surprising too.
“Ever tried to find anything in this house?”

“No, I don’t think so.”

“Never lost anything in it, I suppose. Well, I shan’t buy that one. We
have lost two things, Miss Brayton, and although we’ve searched the
bric-a-brac, we can’t find either of them yet.”

His glance wandered round the room, and I saw it once more in all its
grey-and-white modernity. The bottles in the old bookcases were rather
vulgar, just as Ferdie had said. I noticed it again absurdly, at such a
time.

McNaught returned to me. “The first thing we want is a second key to the
pantry, if there ever was one. It’s a more unusual lock than I thought.
No other key in the house turns it.”

“I’ve never seen one like it,” I said slowly. “But mine used to lie in
the bowl all day.”

“You were packing in your room yesterday evening from half-past six
until a quarter to nine?”

“Yes, about that.”

“No one borrowed it between those hours, then. The other thing I’d like
to find is the luminal.”

“Luminal?”

“The original bottle of tablets. Colonel Fayre’s sedative.”

“Oh, was it that? I’m afraid I didn’t know,” I said truthfully, but
added, as the utter absurdity of the thing overcame me: “But it was
there in the pantry last night. It must have been. I gave Julian four
tablets, I put them in his coffee, and I saw him drink it.”

“You told me that before.” He was resigned rather than contemptuous, and
his pleasant, ugly face looked regretful. “Sit there,” he said, pointing
to a chair near the table. “I want to talk to you about something else.
By the way, you realize we’re making notes, don’t you?”

I did. I had seen the man with the fountain pen the moment I went in.
“Yes,” I said, “I saw that.”

“You’re a very cool young woman.”

“I don’t feel it.”

He cocked an inquisitive eye at that and seemed more friendly. “I
understand from Colonel Fayre that it was he who advised you to leave.
Is that true?”

“Yes.” Now it was coming.

“The reason he gives”—McNaught glanced at a pad in front of him and
drawled the words pointedly—“the reason he gives is that he had formed
an opinion you were growing too fond of him.”

If he hoped that would rattle me, he was disappointed. I could not tell
if that was all Julian had said or if he had said it at all. I was still
cautious. “Is that what he thought?” I ventured.

“Don’t you know?”

“He did not tell me so.”

“Well, let’s put it another way. Was it true?”

It was difficult. I did not know how much might depend on the answer.

“Was it true?”

“I like him very much,” I said helplessly. “I like him well enough to go
the moment he suggested it.”

“Because you thought it prudent?”

“Because I—I wanted to help,” I said.

“I see.” McNaught leaned back in the slender chair, which protested
dangerously. His announcement came out of the blue. “I understand that
Colonel Fayre was under the impression that his wife had introduced you
deliberately into the household in the hope that he would compromise
himself with you.”

“What!” I was out of my chair at that, all caution forgotten in my fury
and surprise.

He waved me down again. “That’s news to you, is it?”

“It’s absurd. I was engaged because Rita could trust me. The doctor told
me that in the beginning.”

“He told me that too.” McNaught was scratching his ear. “Other people
prefer the second story.”

“But what for?” I persisted. “Why should she want such a thing? What
woman would?”

He watched me with pale eyes. “I wonder if anyone on earth is as
innocent as you look,” he said. “You’re only twenty, of course, and
‘nicely brought up,’ as they say. It may not have occurred to you that a
judge might see his way to excuse certain irregularities in a wife’s
behaviour and even so far forget himself as to award her thumping
alimony if her husband betrayed her under her own roof.”

“I don’t believe it,” I said. “I don’t believe it of anyone, and I don’t
believe it of Rita. It’s a filthy idea. Rita chose me because we were
friends at school.”

The pale eyes were calmly inquisitive. “A lot of difference in your
ages,” he remarked. “You could not have been great friends. You are only
twenty now, and she has lived out of England several years, hasn’t she?”
He was so horribly right. I could feel the ground opening under my feet.
His appalling suggestion explained so many things, especially my first
reception in the house.

“That was the idea in Fayre’s mind when he told you to go.”

“No.”

“How do you know?”

I saw the pitfall just in time. “He would have sent me away before, not
now.”

McNaught brought his chair down on all four legs. “Why did you twist the
lamp bulb so that it would not light last night?”

“I didn’t.”

“Yet it was twisted, wasn’t it? Rudkin put it right for you?”

“Yes.”

“Light bulbs don’t turn by themselves.”

“I didn’t do it. Why should I?”

He did not answer, but switched the subject with disconcerting
suddenness. “Colonel Fayre did not dismiss you in the beginning because
he was not afraid of you. You had begun to make headway at last.”

“No.”

“You say you were not in on it. You and Mrs. Fayre weren’t in it
together?”

“No.”

“You mean you were in it with her?”

I was getting hopelessly confused, and I knew it. He had become an enemy
and was slowly but surely wearing me down.

“Make up your mind. Which was it? You and she arranged the whole thing,
and the Colonel saw through it last night. Is that right?”

“No.”

“Then——”

“I beg your pardon, I had no idea anyone was in here.” The soft voice
from the doorway surprised everybody, I think.

McNaught paused in full flight and glared across the room, his eyes
bright with irritation. “Who let you in?”

The abrupt question recalled the visitor, who was withdrawing, and Henri
Phoebus reappeared. I was amazed by the change in him. He looked as if
he had been through some long and terrible experience. His plump face
was drawn, and his eyes looked heavy in their sockets. “I have been in
the house some little time,” he said, with a trace of his normal
airiness.

“Isn’t there anyone on this door?” demanded McNaught.

“At the moment, no. But I am sorry to intrude. I will withdraw at once.
As I told you, I thought the room was unoccupied.”

McNaught let him go, but he followed him into the hall, and we heard him
speaking sharply to the constable, who must have left his post for a
moment. He returned immediately, but he did not resume his questioning.
There was a new expression in his eyes. He looked puzzled and as if he
were trying to recall something that had escaped him. “Who is that, do
you know?” I told him, and he shook his head. “Phoebus?”

“I think he’s quite well known—at least, Rita implied that to me. He
was her entrepreneur.”

“What the devil’s that?”

“It’s like an impresario, isn’t it? She painted, you know.”

“So I heard,” he murmured absently. “That chap here a lot?”

“Quite often.”

“Did he know her when she lived abroad?”

“I——” The words died on my lips as I caught his expression.

The idea that had come to him evidently had shaken him. He stood staring
ahead of him, mingled incredulity and astonishment in his eyes.

“I don’t know,” I finished.

He looked at me vacantly for a minute. “No,” he said at last. “No, you
wouldn’t. No, you go back to your bedroom and stay there. Here, Mason.”

The man with the notebook rose and went to him, and I was forgotten for
the time being; but as soon as I stepped out of the room, the fat
detective was beside me again, and when we got upstairs, he resumed his
vigil in the corridor. As I entered the bedroom, I caught sight of
myself in the mirror. I looked as though I had been faded by a very
bright light, and there were bones in my face I did not know I had.

I sat down and tried to sort it all out, but my reasoning was thrown
into confusion by the one dreadful question that haunted me all the time
and forced itself into my thoughts when they should have been clear and
constructive.

Had Julian really thought that Rita and I——

I did not believe it, I could not believe it, but I did not know for
sure. Julian never had told me in so many words that he loved me.
Suppose that all the time I’d been horribly mistaken and that he was
only being kind, while he thought—

I would not go on, I would not face it, but I had a little foretaste of
hell up there in the dusk that winter’s night.

It was a little later when my jailer tapped again. I thought he’d come
to call me down for more questioning, but it was only to bring me yet
another tray. He set it on the table and went out again, leaving me
gaping at it. Not at the teapot nor the eggshell-china cup, but at the
tray itself.

It was pink. Surely it was pink. It must be the one I had sent to Rita
the night before. Yet I couldn’t believe anyone would be so cruel as to
rescue it from the studio after the poisoned cup had been removed from
it and to have sent it to me.

I took the tea things off it and switched on the light. Now I could see
that the tray was yellow. And the truth—or at least a part of
it—glimmered faintly in my mind.

                 *        *        *        *        *

I decided to wait until after midnight; before then I dared not risk it.
I intended to go down to the studio and look at the tray, if it hadn’t
been taken away.

It was a grim vigil up there in the bright little room which I had come
to love so much. The tray lay where I had left it, and every now and
then I glanced at it, and each time I felt more certain I was right.

About ten o’clock I heard a tapping from the linen cupboard, and I
hurried in to find Mrs. Munsen standing on the chair looking up at me.

“That superintendent’s gone at last,” she whispered. “He went off ten
minutes ago, saying you were not to be disturbed.”

“Did he take the others?”

“No, they’re still here, but they won’t stay all night, surely? Rudkin
thinks they’ll likely leave one man in the hall to watch us, but you
can’t tell with them. I’m going to bed. I’m dead on my feet.”

“You must be,” I said absently.

I was wondering how I could ask her about something. A favour, but the
request stuck in my throat.

“Dr. Phoebus has taken himself off too,” she whispered. “I told him
straight this wasn’t the right house for visitors. He went off like a
whipped dog. He’s been all over the place today, like he was demented.
Lily found him in _her_ bedroom once.”

“In Rita’s room?” I said with surprise.

“Yes. He’d got part of the carpet rolled back, if you please, and all he
did when Lily stared at him was to ask her if the police were still in
the studio.”

“He hasn’t been in there, then?” I asked quickly, my thoughts flying to
the tray.

“He has not,” she agreed grimly and began to climb down. “He and Mitzi
have been whispering in corners all day. There’s something between those
two we don’t know of, if you ask me. They’re looking for something.
Well, good night, miss, and don’t forget what I told you.”

“Oh, please wait,” I murmured hurriedly, thankful she could not see the
colour in my face. “Mrs. Munsen, could you—could I ask you to take a
note to the Colonel?”

She was suspicious immediately. I could feel her eying me fiercely in
the cupboard’s gloom. “What do you want to say to him?”

I didn’t know. The awful thing was, I didn’t know. I only wanted to get
some response, some little reassurance. It was madness, of course. I
knew it and I was ashamed of it. But more than my own safety, more than
anything else in the world, I wanted to know that the things McNaught
had implied were not true.

She was waiting for an answer, and the last thing I intended to do was
antagonise her. A possible excuse occurred to me. “I—I wanted to tell
him that they know about that check,” I explained.

To my astonishment she laughed very softly. “He’s heard all about that.”

“How do you know? Did he—did he tell you?”

“No. I heard them questioning him.”

“Mrs. Munsen, how could you have heard? Where were they?”

“In the studio,” she said calmly. “There’s ways and means of hearing
things in this house if you know them.”

Her admission of eavesdropping was perfectly complacent. I understood
then that Julian was still a child to her; she had no scruples whatever
where his welfare was concerned.

“What did he tell them?” I demanded breathlessly.

“The truth, of course,” she said contemptuously. “There’s no need for
_him_ to lie. He told them he wouldn’t turn any girl out into the world
without a penny.”

It sounded terribly cold.

“It was a lot of money,” I murmured.

“That’s what they said,” she agreed, “and they tried to make it very
unpleasant. But he soon put them in their places. He said he was a rich
man and wasn’t in the habit of doing things by halves.”

“Is that all he told them?”

“It’s all I’m repeating, miss, and I’m not taking any notes to him. The
master’s gone to his bed, and by now he’s asleep in it, please God. If I
were you, I should do the same.”

I heard her step down off the chair, and I knelt on the floor and
strained my eyes after her. “Mrs. Munsen,” I said, “I didn’t do it.”

There was a silence for a moment, and then her voice came to me, grim
through the darkness. “I’m not sorry it’s done,” she said. “You go to
bed and keep your head. Say your prayers, if you’re not afraid to.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

At eleven o’clock the fat detective went away. At least, when I looked
out my door, there was for the first time no sign of his solid bulk in
the corridor. So I knew there was only the other man to be considered,
the one Rudkin thought they would leave on duty in the hall.

All the same, I was very jumpy. Several times I thought I heard
footsteps in the corridor, but always when I sprang to look there was no
one there.

I turned the lights off in the passage, finally, but still I was not
certain I was quite alone in the wing. Once I thought I saw a flicker of
something that might have been a skirt or a coat disappearing round the
end of the corridor.

I undressed and lay down on my bed to wait. I thought if I waited till
late enough, I could slip past the man in the hall and get into the
studio.

At a quarter to twelve I turned out the light and sat in the dark. I
dared not think of Julian. With the darkness all my fears had become
intensified, and I felt deserted as well as trapped. Nobody came near
me, and there was no sound.

When the clock of the church on the other side of the river struck one
and the lazy musical chime of the hour had died away across the water, I
summoned all my courage, opened my door, and stepped out.

The house smelled warm and sweet with polish and the scents of wood and
potpourri. I was still in the old dressing gown I had had at school, and
I had taken off my shoes so that I could feel my way silently over the
rugs and the parquet in the hall.

The whole world seemed to be in darkness. There was no gleam of light
anywhere. The curtains were drawn and the street lamps shut out. The
only sounds I heard, as I stood listening, were the aggressive tick of
the grandfather clock at the head of the staircase and the thudding of
my own heart.

I was so busy concentrating on finding out if there was anyone watching
in the hall, and if so, where exactly he sat, that I was not listening
for any sound behind me.

I reached the stairhead without making a rustle. The folds of my woollen
gown were noiseless, and my bare feet sank quietly into the thick
carpet.

It was when I was halfway down that a stair cracked loudly behind me and
I thought I heard someone breathing. Only my grip on the banister
prevented me from falling. I looked back over my shoulder, and the
darkness wreathed and contracted as I stared into it. I was sure there
was a deeper black in the shadow than there should have been, and for a
moment I stood frozen, almost too frightened to breathe.

I moved on at last, but I was terrified now, and aware of each separate
and particular hair stiffening in the dark as my scalp crawled.

At last my foot touched the cold parquet of the hall. Once again I stood
quiet, straining my ears. I was terrified, both of what might be behind
me and of the watcher I imagined might be ahead.

But this time there was no sound, nothing; only the ticking of the angry
old clock behind me in the dark. I still had a long way to go. The hall
was wide and the studio door was at the far end of it. I let go the
baluster and stepped into the blackness.

It was at that moment that I heard the sigh. It was very distinct, very
human, and horribly close, just behind and a little above me.

I swung round, my heart in my mouth. As I turned, my bare foot squeaked
on the polished wood, and an instant later a flashlight beam, wide and
white and inescapable, shot up from the studio doorway. It held us both,
me and the man at my heels.

I saw the man behind me was Julian at the moment his arms went round me.
I saw his scared, imploring eyes and his mouth set in a hard line. Then
I was aware of only the arms biting into me and the sudden blessed peace
as my body pressed against the cool silk of his dressing gown.

I felt him tremble, and the flashlight beam grew shorter.

As I opened my lips, he put his hand over my mouth and I was quiet. He
was hurting me unconsciously, and suddenly I knew that I liked it and
that he too, felt just as I did with the same reckless surge of pain.

So it was then, at that most hopeless of all moments, that I understood
at last about me and Julian, so that all my doubt vanished and the ache
at my heart disappeared.

I knew now who it was who had been near me all the evening when I
thought I was alone in the ghostly wing of the house and who it was I
nearly had seen turning the corner of the corridor. I knew it was Julian
who had kept watch on my door after the detective had gone, and he who
had waited near at hand in case there was trouble and I needed him. It
was good to know that.

Meanwhile, the beam came closer, holding us squarely in its broad shaft,
and peering into the gloom behind it, I made out McNaught’s face above
the light.

To my surprise he made no attempt to speak, but signalled us to keep
quiet. Over my head Julian nodded. McNaught grinned ferociously, and the
light went out.

For what was perhaps three minutes, although it felt like hours, we
waited. It was perfectly black, and I could make out nothing in the
shadows. I had no idea what was happening or what was coming, and I lay
back content against Julian, his arms still round me, his heart thudding
against my shoulder, his breath fanning my hair.

Suddenly McNaught spoke; his deep voice sounded sharp in the darkness.
“Now,” he said.

The next moment the door of the studio clattered open, and there was a
rush of feet. McNaught had a number of police with him. They had been
concealed in the dark hall, waiting for something to happen inside the
studio, and I, with Julian trailing me, had come down into the very
midst of the ambush.

The crowd of policemen swept us on into the room where Rita had died.

The vast room was cold and gloomy. The only light came from the
hearthrug, where a flashlight lay burning, casting its misshapen beam
across the floor and up the wall.

I think it was a curtain I noticed first after that moment of complete
bewilderment. It was streaming out in the strong draught. Under it there
came climbing in through the low, wide-open window the fat detective who
had been guarding me upstairs.

Then I saw Henri Phoebus. He was kneeling on the hearthrug, his arm
thrust deeply into a small cupboard which had appeared in the panelling
just under the right-hand built-in bookcase where the bottles and
glasses were kept. I never had suspected its existence. It had been
hidden in the moulding.

All the same, I don’t think it was so much a secret cupboard as a
forgotten one. Old Mrs. Fayre and Harriet had kept the Minton in the
bookcase and never had permitted anyone to approach it, so it was
unlikely that anyone else in the household knew of the hiding place
below it.

When I caught sight of Henri Phoebus, it was in the instant of his first
surprise. His pallid face wore a grotesque expression of alarm, and in
its arrested movement his plump body looked stiff and unreal, like a
waxwork.

I was the first person he recognised. He knelt staring at me for a
moment and then scrambled to his feet and came for me. “You,” he
screamed. “You killed her. You knew!”

As I drew back, I felt Julian’s arm tighten round me, and he swung me
out of the way. In the same second the fat detective lunged forward and
tackled Phoebus round the knees. They went down together, and
immediately a ring of police closed in on them.

Just then someone behind us turned up the light, and the room became
familiar again in the glare. The room was so full of Rita’s personality
that I was violently aware of her. It seemed incredible that she should
not be there, forceful and didactic as ever. I shivered.

Meanwhile, McNaught had stepped round the struggling group on the carpet
to examine the cupboard, and presently he came to me holding something
on his palm.

“Look,” he said, his pleasant, ugly face glowing with satisfaction.
“That’s more like it, isn’t it?”

I stared at it. It was Julian’s bottle of luminal tablets.

“And here’s the key,” he continued, producing it. “They were in there
together. That’s got the whole thing taped, I think.”

I looked at the key curiously. It was a new one, a fellow to the pantry
key I possessed.

“That’s the evidence,” McNaught said cheerfully. “That’s just exactly
what we want.”

By this time Phoebus had ceased to protest. He was crouching on the
floor shivering. His captor jerked him to his feet. He made no further
attempt to accuse me, but his eyes never left my face, and I turned away
before the fury in their depths.

McNaught ignored him. He glanced across the room to where a square,
middle-aged detective inspector stood waiting impassively.

“You’ll take over now, George,” he said. “You know the charge?”

The inspector nodded briskly. “You can leave it to me, Mac. Attempted
murder—accessory before—okay?”

“_Attempted_ murder,” I ejaculated. “But——”

McNaught took me firmly by the elbow and led me through the crowd, out
of the room, and into the hall. Julian came with us, keeping close to my
side, and out of the corner of my eye I saw the inspector bearing down
on Phoebus.

“Attempted murder of the Colonel, of course,” said McNaught when we were
out of earshot. “That chap is an accessory before the fact, so they’ll
probably make it conspiracy. And now, Miss Brayton,” he went on with
sudden fierceness, “what the blazes do you think you were doing creeping
down on us and almost wrecking the whole night’s work? It didn’t occur
to you, I suppose, that if we hadn’t caught him with the evidence, we
shouldn’t have had a thing against him.”

“I came to look for the tray,” I said.

“The tray?” His voice sharpened, and his big grey eyes regarded me
curiously. “When did you think that one out?”

I was still puzzled and a little afraid. I glanced at Julian. “I don’t
understand,” I said. “Do you? Who killed Rita?”

McNaught paused before us, his untidy teeth appearing in a ferocious
smile. “You did, Miss Brayton,” he said steadily, and added after an
appreciable pause, “I think.”

I felt Julian stiffen at my side, and at the same moment I saw the full
depths of the tragedy.

They were going to prove that I had made a mistake and that in my
wretched carelessness I had used tablets from a phial whose label I had
not read. I was going to escape; but in that case, there never could be
any real happiness for Julian and me. Whatever happened now, whatever we
decided to do, wherever we decided to travel, Rita always would be
there, dark and hard and beautiful, standing between us like a grim
shadow.

I met Julian’s eyes, and in their darkness I read my own thoughts
echoed.

McNaught’s deep voice cut into the silence. “If you’ve a fire going
anywhere, we’ll have a spell before it if you don’t mind,” he said.
“It’s turned remarkably cold. I don’t know if you’ve noticed it.”

We sat in the music room. The fire was almost out; but Rudkin, who
looked particularly unlike his formal self in a dusty brown dressing
gown and muffler, brought bundles of kindling and made a blaze that
filled the warm dusk of the room with the smell of resin.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Munsen, fully dressed, fluttered about like a lean black
bat, handing hot toddy on a silver tray. The two old servants had
appeared the moment Julian needed them, like genii of the house. I was
vividly aware that their anxiety was as sharp as mine; their fortunes
were bound with Julian’s, their happiness was dependent on his.

McNaught was as bright and dominant and had been all day. The man was
tireless. He sat in the deep leather chair opposite us and sniffed his
glass appreciatively. We remained looking at him warily.

It was some time before he spoke. I was not sure if he was deliberating
or simply waiting for the old brother and sister to withdraw. They went
at last, but I remembered what Mrs. Munsen had said about there being
ways and means of hearing in this house, and I wondered if she was so
very far away.

Finally the superintendent spoke, and his words turned our world over
before us. “You’ve got to face it, Colonel Fayre, and it’s not a
pleasant fact. She was not your wife.” He spread his feet out to the
blaze and gave us time to take in the full meaning of the astounding
statement.

I glanced nervously at Julian. He was sitting up stiffly in his wing
chair, the skin drawn tightly over the fine bones of his face and his
eyes narrow and incredulous. “Not my wife?”

McNaught’s pleasant, ugly face was unexpectedly sympathetic. “No, sir.
She was not your wife. I can understand this is going to be a
considerable shock to you, but it’s one of those things that can’t be
put too plainly. She was Mrs. Henri Phoebus.”

I felt I was going to laugh. I don’t know why, but it was as though some
unbearable bond had snapped and set me free. My hand found Julian’s, and
he held it very tight.

“I did not know that,” he said.

“No, sir. I don’t suppose you did.”

McNaught’s voice was still unwontedly gentle. “But I hope you’ll forgive
me if I say I think you’re well out of it. I want to put the whole thing
to you straight. It’s one of those simple stories that look complicated
from the middle, but if you start at the beginning, it ravels out like a
skein.”

I was still in the dark. The way McNaught was speaking suggested that
there was still some ray of hope for us: but the one overwhelming and
dreadful fact remained, and it obsessed me.

“But you said I killed her,” I murmured huskily.

He turned to peer at me where I sat on a fireside stool between Julian
and the hearth. His eyes were kindly, but there was no weakening there.
“You did, miss,” he insisted gravely, and added after the same pause, “I
think.”

I closed my eyes so as not to see him, but I heard Julian stir as he
leaned forward toward the man. “Were they crooks, Superintendent?” he
said softly.

McNaught met his gaze with a flicker of appreciation. “Yes, sir,” he
said quietly. “Two of the cleverer kind.”

“But that’s not possible,” I burst out “I knew Rita at school, and——”

McNaught shook his head at me. “It’s been years since she was at
school,” he said. “It doesn’t take that long to step off the white line.
Maybe I’d better let you have the story as I know it. I’ve had several
good men at work to get this information in the time, but I’ve checked
it and it’s accurate. I’m going to write my report when I leave here, so
perhaps I’ll give you a little résumé. It’ll help me as well as you.”

Julian motioned to him to continue. He was paler than I ever had seen
any man, and his eyes were grim.

“Well.” McNaught settled himself. “These are the facts as far as we’ve
been able to trace them. Ten years ago, when Rita Raven left her
boarding school, she went abroad to live with her mother, who had parted
from her husband. The mother was a reckless type, a hopeless gambler,
and when her daughter picked up with Henri Phoebus and married him, she
does not seem to have raised much objection. Mother and daughter parted
then.” He paused, choosing his words as if he already were writing his
report. “At that time,” he went on presently, “Phoebus was a small con
man in Paris. He was nothing to look at, but he was attractive to women,
although Rita Raven seems to have been the only one to make any real
impression on him. They struck up a partnership, and with her help he
blossomed out into bigger things.”

“You had seen him before,” I put in, as the inspiration came to me. “You
recognised him when he came into the studio this afternoon.”

“Ah, you noticed that, did you?” He eyed me approvingly.

“Yes, I recognised him, but not immediately. I don’t forget faces,
though—that’s part of my success. When I first saw Phoebus, I was in
Monaco, working with the Sûreté on the Le Grand case, and a French
inspector pointed him out to me as we sat in a café. He said he was one
of their more interesting criminals. As soon as I caught sight of him
today, I knew his face was familiar, but I couldn’t place him until you
said he called himself Mrs. Fayre’s entrepreneur.”

“How do you mean? I don’t understand that.” Julian spoke sharply, and I
realised what an intolerable experience this revelation must be to him.

“It was the word the man from the Sûreté used,” McNaught explained. “He
was describing the racket Phoebus and his wife were suspected of
running. It was a curious business, I remember. She was quite a clever
painter in her way, and she used to produce some rather questionable
modern pictures, which in turn attracted a questionable type of crowd to
the select little shows they gave. It was all very expensive and
affected, and yet rather nasty. I needn’t put it clearer than that, need
I?”

Julian shook his head, and we listened in fascinated silence as the deep
voice rumbled on.

“When the woman had attracted the likely birds, Henri Phoebus picked his
victims. His method was quite simple. He presented himself as a special
type of psychoanalyst and gradually collected a small and wealthy
clientele. His manner was charming, and he ingratiated himself easily
with a certain type of rich, silly, and slightly vicious elderly woman.
They abound in certain European capitals. They went to him to talk about
themselves, and it was all very private and confidential to begin with.
Phoebus learned many secrets. After that—” He shrugged. “It was just
straight blackmail. Vienna, Monte Carlo, and Madrid were all too hot to
hold them at one time. They certainly got around.”

Julian moved in his chair, and I was desperately sorry for him. Even
McNaught cleared his throat, the first sign of embarrassment I had
noticed in him.

“Early in the war they came to London,” he began slowly, then added
abruptly, “I don’t want to hurt your feelings, sir, but it’s now my duty
to put a delicate matter to you as frankly as I can.”

“You’re being the soul of kindness to me, Superintendent,” Julian
murmured, and the edge of his tone was not hidden from me, although
McNaught missed it. “Please go on.”

“Well, sir, I have to remind you that when you first met this—er—lady,
you were a young Commando officer just off overseas. You were a wealthy
man and an attractive youngster, if I may say so, but, quite frankly, at
that time your chances of coming back alive were not particularly
bright. Isn’t that so?”

“Yes. Oh, yes. That’s true enough.” Julian let the words fall absently.
He was making up his mind to say something he found difficult. I knew
him so well that I could feel him hesitate, struggling to master his
reluctance. “McNaught,” he said at last. “This isn’t very easy to say,
and I’m afraid I may not make myself clear. But I wonder if you’ll
understand if I tell you that I knew Rita was several years older than I
was and that it was one of the reasons why I—”

“Went through a form of marriage with her.”

“Why I thought I had married her.” Julian made the correction very
gently. “I did not think I should come back, Superintendent.”

To my surprise, McNaught seemed to understand him much better than I
did. He raised his head, and his expression was deeply sympathetic. “I
can understand a young chap’s being wonderfully worried about who was
going to look after his home, and the pack of good old servants his
mother had died and left him with,” he said unexpectedly, “especially if
he’d known them from his childhood. I was in the last dust-up myself,
and I know how one’s got to go off and leave it. A fellow does the
daftest things to try to keep it safe while he’s away.”

Julian met his eyes and grimaced wryly. “You’re very shrewd,” he said.

“It’s my job to be so, sir.” McNaught was happily sententious again. It
was impossible not to like him. “Well,” he said, “as I see it, Mrs.
Phoebus saw her way to ‘marrying’ a young officer, to whom she had
presented herself as an intelligent, responsible woman. Just the person
to take care of his old dependents, and almost immediately after the
ceremony he went overseas.”

“Leaving her in complete charge,” said Julian drily.

“Not quite, sir,” McNaught corrected him quickly. “Don’t underestimate
your attorney. The Phoebuses might have stripped you but for him. He
summed up Mrs. Rita very early on, and he forced her to keep the staff
and the house going. She did herself as well as she could, I don’t
doubt, and Phoebus flourished likewise, but they couldn’t do any real
harm. He took care of that.”

“I’m eternally grateful to him,” said Julian fervently, “but I don’t
understand why they continued with this entrepreneur business. After
all, they had all the money they needed.”

“Very, likely, but they hadn’t the friends,” McNaught explained. “Rita
Phoebus was a woman who had to live in a crowd. Parties were the breath
of life to her. So Phoebus carried on with his old tricks and drew a
congenial set about them in no time. All was plain sailing until you
came home. You were a sick man, but you were recovering rapidly. The
rackety crowd began to avoid the house. Things weren’t so good.”

“And so they thought of killing me,” said Julian bluntly.

“Yes,” McNaught said shortly, and we sat in silence for a moment.
Despite the fire blazing at my side, I felt the room had grown icy cold.
Rita had so nearly succeeded.

“All the same,” McNaught went on, “all the same, it was a considerable
undertaking for them. They were confidence tricksters and blackmailers,
but murder was something they hadn’t attempted. To be honest, I think
the woman got the idea only when she discovered the morphia where old
Harriet had hidden it in the cupboard under the bookcase. Mrs. Rita must
have found it the day she replaced the old lady’s china with her
cocktail paraphernalia. They tell me in the kitchen that she did that
with her own hands.”

“But how did she know it was morphia? It wasn’t on the label,” I put in.

“Oh, I’m open to bet that Phoebus knows morphia when he sees it,” he
said dourly. “It was remarkably like the luminal and came from the same
dispensary in the same kind of bottle. She noticed that, and she
realised how simple it would be to make a mistake.”

“Why didn’t she do it herself?” It was my question again.

McNaught turned to me, his eyes wide. “She knew she never could stand up
to the enquiry, miss,” he said promptly. “She knew there was bound to be
a great deal of investigation, followed by an inquest. That was
inevitable, and once the police started going into her motives, there
was bound to be the very devil to pay. No, that wouldn’t do at all.”

“So she got hold of Gillie to—— My God, Superintendent, that’s
horrible!” Julian was bending forward in his chair, the knuckles of his
clenched hands white.

“Yes, sir,” said McNaught quietly. “She got hold of Miss Brayton. In
fact, she did what ladies often do when there’s dirty work to be
done—she got a girl in. She was very clever, though; she found just the
right girl. She chose an obviously innocent youngster who had no
relatives to make a bother afterward, and one, moreover, who had a
reputation already for being a little absent-minded. Just the type of
girl, in fact, who would appeal to a coroner as one likely to make a
silly mistake.” He paused and grinned at me. “The staff at Totham Abbey
was very helpful. I sent a man down there this morning after the doctor
had told me his little bit.”

“Oh,” I said, my mouth dry.

“The doctor played into her hands all along,” he observed. “He’s an
honest old chap, but not overburdened with brains. His brother seems to
have held the practice together. She fooled him completely; he was all
ready to believe anything she told him. He was certain you had made a
mistake and confused the bottles, whereas, of course, what really
happened was that someone confused the trays or the cups.”

“But I didn’t do that,” I said.

“Didn’t you?” He eyed me, his head on one side. “Maybe you didn’t. Maybe
Rudkin did. He tells me he’s colour-blind, and I don’t see why I should
disbelieve him. The two shades are confusing by artificial light,
anyway. That’s what you discovered this afternoon, didn’t you?”

“Yes,” I said. “I didn’t notice it last night, though.”

“Perhaps not,” he agreed. “Let’s say Rudkin confused the trays, or that
you, since you were crying, did not notice on which tray was the cup you
put the tablets in. Besides, suppose you had noticed it, would it have
mattered?”

“I don’t understand,” I said woodenly.

He looked at me curiously. “It was only a question of a sedative, wasn’t
it?” he said. “The sedative would hardly have hurt Mrs. Fayre after an
exhibition of temper that, by all accounts, was something sensational.”
He sighed contentedly and lay back in the chair. “It’s all fairly clear
to you now, isn’t it? The Phoebuses had had their plan made for some
time, but Mrs. Rita did not put it into execution until you forced her
hand.”

“By telling her I was going?”

“Exactly. You took her by surprise, and with typical recklessness she
decided to work at once. She had not much to do, but it needed a certain
ruthless courage. Her idea was to open the pantry door with a second
key, which she had had made for the purpose, change the tablet bottle,
tamper with the light, and then wait. I wondered at first if the woman
Mitzi had helped her there, but I’m inclined to doubt it. Mitzi had been
with her for years; but, all the same, I don’t think Mrs. Rita would
have trusted her to that extent. At any rate, the Austrian didn’t know
where the cupboard was. She’s been looking for something all day.”

I was frowning. A small point was bothering me. “How could any coroner
have thought I’d confuse the bottles if there was only the morphia
there?”

“Good girl,” he applauded me. “You see, she intended to go back. I’m
certain of it. She intended to return to the pantry during the night to
restore the light and the luminal. She dared not leave it there in the
first place, in case you noticed there were two bottles instead of one.
In that case, you’d have read the labels, chosen the right one, and
enquired about the other. Wouldn’t you?”

“Yes, naturally.”

“Of course. She knew that. So she intended to put it back afterward.” He
was very happy unravelling all the knots. “Then, when the police arrived
next morning, she could swear blithely that the two bottles had been
there all these weeks,” he continued triumphantly. “She could even
afford to be frank, admitting openly that she had found the morphia
herself and, not knowing what it was, had put it in the pantry long
before you arrived here at all or even the Colonel came home.”

“I should have denied that.”

“Of course,” he said. “But who would have believed you? You would have
looked like a frightened schoolgirl who was trying to conceal her
carelessness. There would have been a very unpleasant inquest.”

He was right, I knew it. I could see it all happening just as he
described. I should have been utterly helpless, and Rita would just have
shaken her head at me and told me I’d broken her heart.

“You both have to thank your lucky stars for her grace note,” McNaught
continued ominously. “If she hadn’t decided to make herself doubly safe
by drinking some of the coffee, she would have succeeded. I should be
sitting here cautioning Miss Brayton against negligence, reproving her
for lying, and”—he cleared his throat—“we should have been alone.”

“Since I should be dead,” said Julian.

“Yes, sir,” agreed McNaught quietly. “You underestimated her all along,
if I may say so. You imputed a bad motive to her for getting this young
lady into the house, but you didn’t choose one bad enough. She took the
coffee to prove she had perfect faith in Miss Brayton’s efficiency just
in case she was ever questioned. There’s irony there.”

I got up. “But all the same, I did it,” I said. “I killed her.”

“Wait.” McNaught was scratching his ear. “There’s just one little doubt
about that. I ought not to mention it, because I never shall be able to
prove it; but for your conscience’ sake, Miss Brayton, consider Rudkin.”

“Rudkin?”

He did not look at me. “Rudkin is a wise old man. I doubt if much gets
by him.” He lowered his voice, although we were alone. “Suppose,” he
began, “only suppose, mind you, that Rudkin guessed something of the
sort was afoot. That light bulb must have made him think, you know,
although it made no impression on you. Suppose he saw the two cups there
waiting, and it came into his mind that it might be a good idea to
change them.”

We gaped at him, half guessing what was coming.

“If he was wrong,” murmured McNaught, “there was no harm done. Mrs.
Fayre simply would take a sedative, which, after the way she’d been
behaving, could only have done her good. On the other hand, it was quite
possible that it would not hurt the Colonel to do without his medicine
for once. All this is only if Rudkin was wrong in his suspicions. If he
was right——” McNaught paused. “Then it was criminal of him,” he said.
“But no one’s ever to know, are they? I don’t suppose he’ll talk.”

We were silent for a long time after that, and even later, when McNaught
had taken his leave, we said little.

Stinker was snoring in his basket. Mrs. Munsen and her brother were
making themselves tea in the kitchen, and the homely clatter of china
reached us faintly in the quiet house. Julian and I remained where we
were by the dying fire.

Presently I told him I was going back to my London boardinghouse.

He did not misunderstand me, but glanced at me, his eyes looking
steadily into mine.

“For how long, Gillie?” he asked.




                                Last Act


                                  ONE

She was running along in the rain. Her high heels clicked and skidded on
pavement slabs as brown and clear as licked toffee and she bent her
yellow head, in its gay green felt, against the gusts.

The message left for her at Victor’s hotel had simply announced briefly
that he had “already left.” It was just like Victor to scuttle down to
Zoff to get his story in first. She pressed on, the exasperating wind
wrapping her narrow skirt round her slender knees, and blessed a suburb
which appeared to possess no taxicabs.

It was nearly dark and the street lamps were coming out one by one. This
was the old part of Bridgewyck which still retained some of the smugly
sedate qualities of the market town it had been before a tidal wave of
expansion had passed over it and joined it to the great city less than
fifteen miles away. The wide street was lined with dark gardens, behind
which solid family houses lurked amid secretive trees.

Margot Robert, white hope of the newly reformed Théâtre de Beaux Arts de
Paris et Londres, was in no mood to admire them. She was becoming very
wet. There were dark patches on the grey cloth of her suit and the
leather sides of her week-end case glistened like running water when the
light caught them.

The light caught her face, too, occasionally, and when it did hurrying
passers-by turned despite the rain to look back after her.

Just recently intelligent folk in three capitals had been arguing about
this young actress whose tragic mother had been a stage star in the
forgotten days of the first World War, but whatever else was said of
her, no one ever suggested that she was not beautiful. At twenty-four
she had all the unlikely loveliness of a Fragonard painting. She was
slender, porcelain-fine and pastel-coloured, a sunflower blonde with
speedwell eyes. So much was unanswerable, and one could take it or leave
it as one’s taste decreed. But there the classic china-doll effect ended
abruptly. The last few years had implanted character in the porcelain.
There was a firmness in the pointed chin, and the mouth, soft and primly
formed as a child’s, could smile but never simper. There was courage
there, too, and intelligence, attributes old Monsieur Fragonard would
never have tolerated in a model.

Maurice Odette, the dramatic critic, writing in New York a few weeks
since, had protested plaintively that “such a face should surely never
hide a mind,” but all the same he had come waddling across the Stork
Club to say something kind at the party on the evening before the
company sailed.

However, she was not thinking of these triumphs as she turned in at last
through a pair of tall iron gates. She was preoccupied with Zoff. Zoff’s
reactions had a habit of mattering.

A gravel carriage drive lined with dripping laurels led her to a
monstrosity of a porch. This curious structure, considered the most
elegant thing in the eighties, was a coloured glass conservatory big as
a shop front and domed like a temple, built to lie across the front door
and at least two of the windows. It was crowded with palms and geraniums
and smelled faintly medical. The girl smiled as she entered its dimly
lit warmth and paused to tug the old-fashioned bell-pull. The whole
house was so absurdly like Zoff. When Sir Kit had offered to lend it to
his old friend once the storm had broken in Europe, he must, she felt,
have realised how exactly it would suit the famous _doyenne_ of the
French stage whose career had been one of the more colourful stories of
the great era immediately before the wars.

The house was Zoff’s period incarnate. The ridiculous palms and the
solid comfort, the ormolu and the inch-deep carpets, the mock Gothic and
the draughtproof doors, together they epitomised the world she had
graced and scandalised and which was now as lost as only yesterday can
be.

All the same, whatever else had gone, Zoff herself remained. Margot had
heard her strong voice on the telephone that afternoon and was grateful
for it. In a wavering world Zoff’s famous temperament still represented
a constant if eruptive force.

The door opened slowly at first and then with a rush as Genevieve,
browner than ever and if possible even more fat, appeared on the
threshold, the warmth and colour of the over-crowded vestibule spread
out like a back cloth behind her.

“Margot! _Chérie!_” She drew the girl in and hugged her in arms as
strong as a navvy’s, uttering all the time shrill parrot cries of
protest at her wet clothes, commands that she change her shoes,
enquiries, endearments, all the strident noises of her love and welcome.

Forty years in Zoff’s somewhat exacting service had not altered
Genevieve. She was still a Provençal peasant, outspoken, obstinate and
indefatigable. Everything perturbed her for a moment and nothing for any
length of time. She made a broad, sombre figure in her neat black dress
and small black headshawl, but her huge hands were kind and there was an
innocent merriness in her small black eyes like the merriness one
sometimes sees in the eyes of elderly nuns.

To Margot she was home. Twenty-three years before, Zoff had made one of
her great gestures. At the first news of Marthe Robert’s tragic death
from an overdose of veronal she had driven to her young rival’s
apartment and had taken the weeping year-old baby in her arms, carrying
her down to the carriage herself while the child wept wearily into her
furs. After that, of course, she had passed Margot to Genevieve, and it
was she whom the girl best remembered. Genevieve had bounced her on
featherbed knees and had murmured funny old Provençal rhymes in her ears
until she slept. In the morning it was Genevieve who waked, washed and
fed her, kissed and scolded her and in the end made her forget; so now,
in spite of everything, it was Genevieve and not Zoff who was _Maman_ to
Margot.

The old woman was overjoyed to see her darling.

“So it was a great success, this little tour, was it?” she demanded.
“_Succès fou?_ Ah, you can’t tell me about that America. The times we
had there, Madame and I, before you were born! We went all over the
country, from one end to the other. When they couldn’t photograph Madame
they photographed me. You must go up at once and tell her, she will be
so pleased. She needs pleasing these days. She’s always so tired now.
That does not suit her, you know.”

Tired? Zoff tired? It sounded unlikely. In Madame Mathilde Zoffany’s
immediate circle it was usually everybody else who suffered that
disability.

Margot looked worried. “I’ll go now,” she said, and then after a pause,
“Is Victor here?”

Steps sounded on the landing above as the words left her lips, and they
both turned a little guiltily as a man came gracefully down the stairs,
bouncing a little on his toes, his shoes twinkling. Graceful, elegant,
_soigné_ they were all words which suited Victor Soubise, and but for
the faintly sagging curves under his cheeks handsome might have fitted
him also. He came over to Margot at once and took her hand. Zoff’s elder
grandson had none of that remarkable woman’s energy, but there was
considerable charm in his narrow-lipped mouth and heavily lidded eyes.
At the moment he appeared pleased with himself. There was a
cat-and-cream-jug smugness under the long Norman nose. Margot ignored
his welcome.

“You’ve been talking to Zoff.”

He smiled at her disarmingly. “Naturally. After our discussion at dinner
last night I thought perhaps I should.” He had a light, affable voice
and was unruffled as usual. He sounded eminently reasonable.

“Is—is she angry?”

“Darling!” He burst out laughing. “You look about fourteen, do you know
that? No. Of course not. Our _chère maîtresse_ is sympathetic. She has
been telling me that all great actresses are difficult to their fiancés.
I had been hearing a great deal of ancient history.”

Margot shrugged her shoulders. She was not smiling and her eyes had
become a shade darker.

“You haven’t been terribly clever, Victor. I shan’t forgive you.”

“I’m sorry.” He made a deprecating gesture. “I assumed you would come
down this morning. Denis is due tonight. You knew that, of course?” He
glanced at her sharply and noted with satisfaction that her face grew
blank, while Genevieve, who had stood listening to the conversation,
uttered an indignant cluck at the name. Denis Cotton, only son of Zoff’s
elder daughter now dead, was not often mentioned in the household. Zoff
disliked him for his mother’s sake.

“No, I had no idea.” Margot looked from one to the other of them in
astonishment.

Victor laughed. “You’ve been away six months and you’re out of the
picture, my dear,” he said. “In your absence Denis has been visiting,
with some rather interesting consequences, or so it appears. Which
reminds me, I shouldn’t go into the drawing room if I were you.”

“That is naughty.” Genevieve turned on him as if he were still a child.
“She has only just arrived, she is wringing wet and she has not yet seen
Madame. No, that is abominable. Leave her alone. She will hear
everything soon enough.”

Margot began to laugh. Genevieve scolding and Victor telling tales, this
was Zoff’s household as everyone knew it. She put an arm round the old
woman’s shoulders and hugged her.

“What is in the drawing room, Gen’vieve? Tell me, or shall I go and
look?”

Genevieve put up a hand to imprison hers in a grip like a trap.

“Be quiet,” she murmured. “The doors in this house are not too thick.
Sir Christopher Perrins is there.”

“Sir Kit? Why didn’t you tell me? I meant to go over to his house
tomorrow. I’ll just put my head in.”

“No.” The grip tightened. “Not yet. Not for a little while. He has the
_juge d’instruction_ with him.”

“She means an inspector,” said Victor casually. “A British inspector of
police, very impressive, and about as useful as a circus horse in the
circumstances.”

Margot met his eyes and grimaced sympathetically. In most households the
police are sufficiently uncommon visitors to cause a certain excitement
in the family circle, but Zoff had never been a respecter of the minor
conventions. In the course of her career she had sent for the police
many hundreds of times. In earlier days the Prefecture had kept a
special file for her complaints and a special officer to hear her
troubles, and she had repaid the courtesy by performing at concerts in
aid of police charities. It had been a most amicable arrangement.

“The jewels again, I suppose?” Margot spoke lightly, and before Victor
could reply Genevieve came out strongly, her accent broad and
convincing.

“That sort of thing. It is nothing, nothing at all.” Then she scowled at
Victor, who smiled over her head at Margot.

“The subject has been changed,” he said. “Look, my dear, are you
catching pneumonia before our eyes?”

“My God, yes!” Genevieve came back to practical matters with a rush.
“You will come upstairs this instant, Margot. When you are dry you can
come in to Madame. No, no more chatter, I forbid it. Come along, come
along!”

She took the week-end case from Victor and, brushing him aside, seized
the girl by the arm and propelled her firmly toward the staircase.
Victor touched her hand as she passed.

“We meet at dinner, then,” he said and turned away down the tiled
passage.

The old woman glanced after him. “Now what is it?” she enquired.

“I’m not going to marry him. I told him last night.”

“_Eh bien?_” Genevieve sounded unimpressed. She thrust the girl before
her up the staircase. “These wars,” she said breathlessly as they
reached the top, “but for _les guerres_ you would have been married
these five years and Madame a great-grandmother. That is the trouble
with these affiances, they do not keep well.”

“I could hardly marry him when he was in Buenos Aires.” Margot spoke
defensively if indistinctly, as in the sanctuary of a bedroom her skirt
was pulled relentlessly over her head.

“No?” agreed the old woman, panting from her exertions. “And if he were
lying dead in a cellar after fighting for _la patrie_, you could not
marry him either. Take off those knickers. They are wet also. Nonsense,
I can feel them; they are damp also, I say.”

A resigned and tousled Margot was clad only in a towel at the moment
when the door opened. The bouquet of extravagantly unseasonable roses
brought a waft of fragrance as it came slowly across the room, half
hiding the figure who carried it.

The next moment there was a scream of amusement. The flowers flew away
in a wide arc, leaving a shower of petals, as Zoff herself at her most
boisterous threw out her arms.

“Darling, darling, darling! What are you doing? My God, we look like
something from _Figaro_. I was going to make a speech in my best manner,
the old actress salutes the young new star, and what happens? You spoil
it all, you and that imbecile old woman. Standing about naked! My dear,
how lovely you are and how _pink!_” She was laughing and crying and
kissing and hugging, her years falling away from her like scattering
hairpins, her eyes shining slits of black diamond in her dark skin.

Just for the moment Margot felt again the old childish thrill of
apprehension which this tempestuous personality had always engendered in
her whenever they met again after a little time. She loved Zoff, owed
her everything and admired her intensely, but she was still a little
afraid of her, even now when the great actress was over seventy, and to
touch her was to touch live wires.

As though she guessed something of the reaction, the celebrity became
comparatively quiet.

“Pretty little chit,” she said, kissing her again to smother her
irritation. “How I love you. And I am glad to see you, do you know.
Margot, what a terrible country this is, and what a horrible house. My
God, how I want to hear about somewhere else! How were all my dear
Americans? What did they tell you about me?”

“You’re tiring yourself,” Genevieve cut in as though she was already
halfway through an argument. “We shall all pay for this. Why couldn’t
you wait in your room until I brought her in to you? Look at all these
flowers! Completely wasted! Besides, if you can afford flowers, why
didn’t you send a car to meet her? She’s wet to the shift.” She waddled
over to the roses as she spoke and gathered them up, shaking them
angrily into some sort of order again. Zoff eyed her coldly and seated
herself upon the bed as on a throne.

“No taxi?” she enquired of Margot in bright, impersonal surprise. “What
did I tell you? A terrible country! It is typical. _Ma foi_, what a
nation!”

In repose Zoff was not, and never had been, beautiful. She was a
big-boned woman, not overtall, with a shrewd, bold face whose wide mouth
and narrow eyes accentuated its character. Her visual charm lay in her
grace, which was amazing. It transformed every movement and made lovely
every pose. The rest was vitality. Even now, when her lips were blue
under her dark lipstick and her shock of hair was no longer gold but
white and dry as linen, energy flowed from her in a stream. When she
laughed, which was often, her eyes gave off little dark sparks.

“Cheerful,” she said with superb disgust. “Do you know, _chérie_, the
people here are always cheerful. It is a virtue here. _Mon Dieu_, I
can’t understand it! They wear hair shirts and go up and down smiling
bravely, too polite to scratch. They are disgusting. For myself, I shall
obviously die here. You mustn’t tell Kit that. The old villain wants to
turn me out of his horrible dirty little house when I can no longer
travel. He is a monster, that one.”

Margot bent over the clean stockings Genevieve had produced and hid her
smile. So this was the new persecution. One of Zoff’s great virtues was
openness. One was never mystified by her grievances. They came and went,
but not in festering secret. The family technique had become adroit,
however, and Margot changed the subject.

“I wore the headdress,” she said.

“In _Phèdre_?” Zoff was beguiled. “You are too tall, of course,” she
said quickly. “You would dwarf it. But I expect it gave you a little
courage, eh? What was this new play, _L’Amant_? Very dramatic? No? You
shall read it to me when I am not so tired, and I shall show you how it
should be done, perhaps. I am very ill. Do you know that? Did Gen’vieve
tell you? The doctor here, who is a complete fool, says one day I shall
die.”

“So shall we all, God be praised,” said Genevieve, who was still sulky.
“The poor man said you should be quiet.”

“Quiet?” The deep voice rose in a schooled crescendo. “How can I be
anything but quiet in this absurd provincial back yard? I am being
buried alive when I am not being actively murdered——”

“_Tiens!_” cut in Genevieve. “The poor child . . .”

“Of course,” Zoff was penitent. “My poor little Margot, half drowned
already, she does not want to hear about the old and the sick and the
hideous. No, we must talk about her.” She paused reflectively and the
mischievous black eyes became thoughtful. Margot climbed into a slip and
smoothed the silk over her slender flanks. She was waiting, listening
intently, her white-gold curls wild on the top of her head, her chin
determined.

Zoff considered her, apparently dispassionately, and, cocking her chin
back suddenly, spoke over her shoulder.

“See those bones, Gen’vieve, those shadows there, blue in the white
back. Mine were never so good, never. Not at my first confession. I had
to make my way without much beauty. Still, it is a great deal. Even now
when one knows how little it counts it takes one by the throat. You
shall have a dark dress, _petite_, with no back at all. None, down to
your little tail.”

The voice ceased only for an instant. Almost without break she added
briefly:

“So my poor grandson Victor Soubise is not now sufficiently exalted for
the talented Mademoiselle Robert?”

“Oh, Zoff!” Margot swung round, the colour pouring into her face. This
was Zoff at her naughtiest, unfair and enjoying it. “Don’t, darling.
Don’t go and take it like that. I wanted to talk it over with you. It
never occurred to me that Victor would come roaring to you before I
could get here.”

“Why should he not?” Zoff was playing the matriarch, looking the part
and not entirely acting. Behind her were many generations of small
landowners in the _Sud_ and she was dealing now with a problem which
would have been perfectly understood by any one of them. “Your marriage
to Victor has been arranged since you were fifteen,” she said. “It is
only the wretched accident of war which has kept you apart in these
important years. It is a serious family business. There is property to
consider.”

There it was, of course. Zoff had placed a finger on a vital spot. As
she said, there was a great deal of property to consider.

As she was fond of pointing out, other actresses acquired other things.
Sarah Bernhardt preferred lions, for instance. But Zoff had concentrated
always on property, and now, even though France had been occupied twice
in a generation, much of it remained.

To begin with there was almost the whole of the famous Cap d’Azur,
midway between Nice and Marseilles. Both Zoff and Genevieve had been
born there when the place had been no more than a hamlet, but when she
had inherited the estate which covered the shore line she had not sold
it but had put money into its development and had used her friends to
make it fashionable.

During the brief glory of her second marriage, to Mégard, the perfume
king, that time, money had poured into her ventures, and even after the
occupation her faithful old notary could write very optimistically of
leases and ground rents.

The Cap was by no means all the real estate. There was the block of
luxury apartments in Paris which she had converted herself out of the
mansion in the Rue de St. Anne. It had been her widow’s portion from her
first husband, that same Conte d’Hiver whose memory she had so abused in
the famous _cause célèbre_ which had shocked all Paris and nearly cost
her her popularity.

Then there was the super-hotel in Lyons which she had bought for a song
in the scare of ’17, and the quay and the warehouses at Port Marius
inherited from her own grandmother, the redoubtable Mère Zoffany of
fabulous memory.

Lastly there were the two fine vineyards in the Rhône, the deeds of
which poor Lampre, the great turf accountant, was said to have sent her
from his deathbed. They were hidden in the straw of a champagne bottle,
so it was said, and so passed unnoticed through a ravening multitude of
creditors who swarmed over the anterooms in his fine house.

All these were still flourishing, all paying dividends. Zoff had picked
her agents with genius and had had a flair for holding on at the right
time. Also, of course, there were the jewels. Certainly there was
property to consider.

Margot stood looking at Zoff now, following the train of thought behind
the narrow forehead. The old woman was thinking of her possessions and
what was to become of them.

In this matter she was not so free as one might have thought. Under
French law there is no nonsense about disinheriting one’s relatives. In
France, if the children must inherit their parents’ sins to the third
and fourth generation, they do at least receive their property also.

Everybody knew how Zoff’s fortune must be disposed. She had only two
direct descendants, two grandsons. These were the cousins Victor and
Denis, sons of her two daughters, one by each of her marriages.

Therefore, by the law of the land, each grandson must receive a full
third of the whole estate, and only the remaining third was free. This
last portion was settled on Margot, save for certain sums left to
Genevieve and other dependents. It was all very simple and utterly
inescapable. And yet, like many others who have built up fortunes by
unswerving personal effort, Zoff recoiled from dividing hers. She had
seen its power grow, had nearly lost it twice to the Boches, and now
again felt the thrill of holding it. To her it was a living thing.

For its sake the marriage between Margot and Victor had been planned
when the boy was in the schoolroom and the girl in the nursery. Denis,
the other grandson, remained. Even Zoff had discovered there was no way
round Denis.

Certainly she had done her best. The scandalous case which she brought
in the French courts after her quarrel with her elder daughter, the
sickly Elise d’Hiver, had almost cost her her career. The suggestion
that a mother could get up in open court and swear that the baby she had
carried in her arms at the famous reception when her secret marriage to
D’Hiver was first announced was not her own child was too much even for
the most delirious of fans.

Zoff lost and retired for a time. Elise died in childbirth after her
marriage to a penniless American soldier of the first World War. But
even after he too had lost his life in Picardy there was still the baby,
still Denis.

The boy had been a thorn in Zoff’s side all his life. He had been
brought up by servants on the small portion his mother had received from
her father, and he had no help from Zoff.

Even this new war had not obliterated him. He had taken part in the
resistance movement and, a second-year medical student, he had worked
underground attending to the wounds of men fighting the invader. After a
dozen hairbreadth escapes Denis remained.

At this very moment he was finishing his training in a London hospital,
studying to take the final degrees he had not had time to acquire before
the terror swept over the land again. When Zoff died, one third of her
fortune must be his. There was no avoiding it. One third at least must
be whittled off the whole, and now she was being asked to divide again.

All this Margot followed perfectly as she stood in the big bedroom
looking thoughtfully at the old woman. She felt the situation was
archaic. It was exasperating, belonging to an older world, but there it
was, it was true.

“Oh, darling,” she said, “I’m so sorry. Do, oh, do understand.”

Zoff tilted her chin. It was a characteristic movement, curiously
resourceful.

“You have decided against Victor, utterly?”

“Yes—that is, only, of course, that I don’t want to marry him.”

“_Eh bien._ This change in your heart, it had taken place on your trip
to New York, yes?”

“No, not exactly. I decided finally on my way back, on board. But I’ve
been thinking of it for some time, ever since I first saw Victor again
when he got back from South America. How long is that?—six months at
least.” She was speaking earnestly but with caution. It was happening in
the worst possible way. Zoff was forewarned and forearmed, and her
personality was a force one had to fight against all the time.

“You took a dislike to Victor? You thought him changed? He was not a
hero, he had not fought. Was that it?” The black eyes were penetrating
and Margot looked away. It was not going to be possible to explain to
Zoff that a man who had seemed a thrilling mystery of graceful
sophistication to a girl of eighteen had become a rather spiteful
old-ladyish bachelor in the eyes of an experienced woman of twenty-four.
Zoff would not be interested in any such revelation. Her retort might
easily be that a husband was not a lover, and what did one expect. Zoff
still lived in an older France. Margot sighed and returned to the
battle.

“Victor does not love me, and I don’t love him,” she said. “We never
have, except as brother and sister. That won’t do for marriage, Zoff,
not nowadays. Don’t worry about the property, my dear. Let him have my
share as well as his own. You’re free to give it to him. I’m not a
relative. You’ve done everything for me and I’m more than grateful. I
owe you everything and I love you, but I don’t want any more. I’ll be
all right, Zoff. Don’t worry about me. Count me out.”

Genevieve had come up behind the bed, and now both the old faces, which
were alike only in their expressions, were lifted anxiously toward the
young one. Absently Zoff put up her hand and touched Genevieve’s, which
lay on her shoulder. She spoke for them both.

“Margot,” she said, “there is one thing that we must know at once
_immédiatement_, now. Who is the man?”

“The man?”

“Yes, _ma chérie_, the man. The man you have decided to marry instead of
Victor. What is his name?”

Margot began to laugh. “Idiots!” she said. “Of course there isn’t
anybody. I should have told you at once.”

“No one?” Zoff’s eyebrows looked like circumflex accents. “I hope you
are not unnatural,” she said devastatingly. “No, of course not; it is
one of those enormous Americans, more rich than I am, perhaps. Take no
notice of him. Forget him. He will take you out of Europe. You’ll never
see your home again.”

“Zoff, don’t be absurd. This is the truth, really. There is nobody.”

Zoff sniffed noisily and unromantically. She got up and put her arm
through Margot’s.

“Perhaps she’s not such a bad vedette after all, eh, Gen’vieve? A very
pretty ingénue performance, _chérie_. Come with me and see what I have
done to make this miserable kennel habitable. Poor Kit is so angry with
me. I have bribed an old bricklayer to help me to go round the bestial
restrictions with which this infantile country surrounds itself, and I
have thrown all the three front bedrooms into one grand salon. It is not
good, but it is better than being stifled.”

“She has ruined the house,” remarked Genevieve placidly. “Sir Kit has
been _galant_, but the tears came into his eyes when he saw it. Run
along. I will bring you a dress and you can do your hair in there.”

Margot was not deceived. This brilliant digressing was one of Zoff’s
favourite manœuvers. She would return to the main subject the moment
Margot’s own guard came down. All the same, the alterations sounded
startling, and proved to be so when they crossed the hall to see the
room. She had done just what she said. Two walls had come down and now
the whole front of the house was transformed into one enormous
apartment, in which Zoff’s own huge rococo bed was almost lost. It was
impressive but, for anyone but the _chère maîtresse_, utterly
impracticable.

“The others,” said Zoff magnificently, “sleep elsewhere. There are
little rooms downstairs and attics also. Quite comfortable, I believe. I
have not been up there because of my poor heart. Do you like it?”

“It’s amazing,” said Margot truthfully. “Extraordinary, darling. Can
they keep it warm?”

“Seventy feet long exactly.” Zoff spoke with satisfaction. “I take my
exercise, walking once up and once down. By putting the mirrors at each
end I feel I am going further. You don’t like it, you silly little
bourgeoise.”

“I do, in a way. I don’t think it was necessary.”

“That is what Kit said. That man has a mean soul. He wants me to leave
here because his son, who is a general coming home from the East, wishes
to live in it with his hideous wife and children. I am beset by
everybody. Margot, tell me, tell me quickly, is it Denis?”

The final question was a gentle hiss, loud enough to fill a theatre and
the strong fingers sank into the girl’s forearm.

Although she had been waiting for the attack, the suddenness of it took
Margot by surprise. She stiffened.

“Denis?”

“Yes, this man you intend to marry. Is it Denis?”

“Zoff, you’re mad. Of course not. Denis doesn’t want to marry anybody.
Haven’t you seen him, darling? He’s a fanatic. He’s crazy about his
work. He’ll never have time for marriage.”

Zoff grunted. “I have seen him,” she said with curious bitterness.
“Since he has been in London he has become the dutiful grandson. At any
rate, he has come over to see me twice. As you say, he is fanatical.”
She paused and added casually: “But I hear that you have seen him. You
have dined with him.”

“Yes, twice, before I left for the States. He came to the theatre and
took me out for a meal. He talked all the time about his work while we
ate.”

“In some filthy little _cabinet_ of a restaurant, no doubt.”

“Not a very grand place, no. He has no money, Zoff.” To escape the
catechism Margot took refuge in a question which had been worrying her.
“Zoff, I know it’s nothing to do with me, but do you pay Sir Kit for
this house?” she said.

“_Pay_ him?” The celebrity was aghast. “It is he who should pay me to
live in the abominable ruin. Of course I do not pay him. I am his
guest.”

Margot hesitated. “I don’t think he’s very well off. The war has hit him
badly, you know.”

“_Tant pis._” Zoff shrugged her shoulders. “We cannot help his troubles.
He is very honoured to have me here. Poor Kit, he loved me very much
once. Sometimes even now he loves me a little still. Do you find that
disgusting?”

Margot blinked. Zoff really was a terror. Age seemed to be playing round
her rather than touching her; just trying to get a word in edgeways,
perhaps.

“Love is a very awkward thing,” the great actress was apostrophising.
“That is why these family marriages, which are all-important, should
take place when one is very young. If one is young enough one can love
anything. I expect that is why people cry when youth confronts them
suddenly. It is envy.” She cocked her head on one side and prodded the
girl’s shoulder with a long forefinger. “Should love arrive when one is
older it is a different matter. To love is to become molten, you
understand, and to pour one’s self into a die. Afterwards, whatever one
does, the pattern remains. If one escapes the first man, one loves again
another exactly like him, and so on forever. It is very serious.”

She seated herself in the high-backed gilt chair which had stood at the
end of her bed ever since Margot could remember.

“You ate in a dirty _estaminet_,” she observed, “and yet, _ma chère_,
you went again to dine with Denis.”

“Oh, leave Denis out of it!” In spite of her caution the young voice was
raw, and Zoff’s eyes flickered with sudden pain. Immediately her entire
mood changed.

“As I get older I think too much and too quickly,” she announced. “Poor
_petite_, you will forgive old Zoff. She grows silly ideas as the other
old women do. Now get yourself dressed. As for me, I must go down. I
have a policeman to talk to.” She got up slowly and moved over to the
door, and for the first time it occurred to the girl that she had grown
a little tottery. But on the threshold it was the old Zoff who looked
back, mischief on her broad face. “I have to tell him I have made a
stupid mistake,” she said. “I wish I was your age. In that case, of
course, it would be he who would have to apologise.”

There was nothing ominous in her words, but as the door closed behind
her Margot shivered. She sat down before the dressing table to do her
hair.


                                  TWO

Sir Christopher Perrins walked sadly down the corridor. The house was
his own but he hardly recognised it. Since Zoff had bedevilled it, the
familiar atmosphere of sanctuary had disappeared altogether. The angry
police inspector at his side was an anachronism if ever he met one.

In his youth Kit Perrins had been one of those happy little men whose
round faces and smiling good humor sometimes deceive people into
believing that they can have neither brains nor deep feelings. Both in
the diplomatic and the elegant sporting circles which revolved round the
great country houses of those days he had been a great favourite without
being a great figure. It was only afterward that his friends, looking
back on him, realised how sound he had been, and also how nearly the
tragic elements in his story must have touched him.

His marriage had been a miserable failure, but he never complained and
no one heard of the bitterness brought into his life by the cold, greedy
woman who had shared forty years of it. His fortune dwindled inevitably
in the changing years, and a country never generous to the men on whom
she relies had awarded him hardly at all for a lifetime of service. Yet
at seventy-odd—he was jocularly evasive about the “odd”—he remained a
round and smiling person, old only by his wrinkles and a slight
unsteadiness in his freckled hands.

At this instant he was deeply shocked. During his long friendship with
Zoff she had provided him with plenty of awkward moments. For nearly
fifty years she had retained her ability to startle the wits out of him,
and on rarer occasions to scandalise his sophisticated soul. Today she
had done it again. His round brown eyes were reproachful. This final
scene, which had taken place not ten minutes before when she had calmly
rescinded all her dreadful accusations of the morning, this really had
taken a deal of swallowing. He glanced up at the furious policeman who
walked beside him.

“The French are volatile,” he ventured.

“Old ladies are often difficult, you mean.” Inspector Lee spoke bluntly.
He was a big man, heavily built, with an intelligent face which normally
wore a mild, not to say resigned, expression. But at the moment he was
irritated beyond endurance and did not care if he showed it. Kit sighed.
There were times when he half wished he had left Zoff to the Hun, but as
always, in the next breath he was ashamed.

“In her own country Madame Zoffany has been a little queen for a great
many years.”

“Oh, I understand perfectly, sir.” The inspector cut him short because
he could not bear to hear any more of it. When the complaint had arrived
at the station it had promised something interesting and it was
exasperating to find this explanation. “I understand what you’re telling
me. She did it to annoy and now she’s changed her mind. We often get
that sort of thing, but usually,” he added spitefully, “in a rather
different walk of life. In the ordinary way, an old woman calls in a
constable and hands him out a lot of nonsense, and he tells her to have
a drop of hot comfort and sleep it off. I came round myself today
because when we get a serious charge from this kind of address there’s
usually something in it.” He paused and added heavily: “I think I can
say that I’ve practically satisfied myself that there is nothing in it,
but it’s a very funny little incident, you will allow that.”

“An unfortunate incident,” corrected Sir Kit gently.

“Queer,” persisted Lee, partly to get his own back. “It does make one
wonder what her relations are with her grandsons, you know, and then—”
He broke off abruptly. Margot had turned the corner and was coming
toward them. She wore a dark blue dinner dress whose colour echoed her
eyes and effect was considerable.

Kit, who adored her and had been longing to see her, could have wished
her anywhere else. She came forward, her hands outstretched.

“Here I am.”

“Margot, my dear child!” Lee watched the embrace with gloomy interest.

“This is the adopted granddaughter, I suppose?” he said.

Kit frowned. The man was in the right and had a grievance, but he was
taking advantage of the position.

“This is Mademoiselle Robert, Inspector,” he said stiffly. “A young
friend and heir of Madame Zoffany’s. Margot, I shall be with you in a
moment. It’s good to see you, my dear. The trip doesn’t seem to have
hurt you, thank God.”

It was on the tip of Lee’s tongue to say that the young lady looked
bonny wherever she had been, but he checked it. The girl looked human
enough, but they were all alike, these people. When one of them created
trouble they all crowded round and made a screen like players on a
football ground round the man who has lost his shorts. Just as she was
moving off, however, an idea occurred to him. As she passed him he
turned on her.

“You’re the young lady who made Madame Zoffany change her mind, are
you?” At once he was aware of scoring. The girl looked startled but
wary, and the old man coloured but recovered himself at once.

“You underestimate Madame Zoffany, Inspector,” he said easily. “No one
on earth has ever changed her mind for her. It—er—follows some
weathercock law of its own, don’t you know. Mademoiselle Robert has only
just returned from a trip abroad and has not yet heard anything of the
mistake which brought you here tonight. I was rather hoping she never
would. And now, Inspector, there’s nothing I can do but repeat my
sincere apologies. Margot, I think dinner has gone in. I’ll join you in
the dining room, my dear.”

Lee recognised dismissal. Deep in that quiet voice of the old school lay
a chorus of other voices, neither so soft nor so courteous, voices of
lawyers, voices of magistrates, voices of high-ranking police officials
addressing subordinates who had exceeded their duty. He gave in
regretfully.

Margot smiled good-bye and went off down the corridor, leaving a breath
of L’Heure Bleu behind her. Lee followed Sir Kit to the front door,
where they parted amicably. But the inspector went out into the rain
wondering if he had not perhaps stumbled on something after all. Had the
old man been far too anxious for him not to question the girl? Lee could
not be sure. The household would bear keeping in mind.

Sir Kit hurried back through the hall. He felt tired and heartily
ashamed of the whole shocking business. It was not fair of Zoff, it
really was not fair. He was very angry with her. He brightened a little
as he entered the dining room. Of all corners of the house it had most
nearly escaped the tenant’s innovating hand. The worn Chinese wallpaper
and austere late Georgian mahogany remained much as he remembered them
as a child, and the atmosphere was warm and safe and polite still as it
had been long ago when his aunt Birdwood, who had left him the house,
had first entertained him at her luncheon table.

Victor and Margot were already seated when he came in, a place left
empty for him between them. Evidently Zoff had decided not to appear.
She seldom came down to dine these days, but Kit understood that she was
keeping out of his way tonight. It was even just possible that she was a
little ashamed of herself. He hoped so. At the same time he missed her.
She might have come down, he thought, she might have come down. Margot
was pleased to see him, that was some compensation. She was laughing
across the room at him now and patting the chair beside her.

As usual, Felix was waiting on them. He had been in Zoff’s service for
something like thirty-five years and had never, by Sir Kit’s standards,
ventured within assessable distance of becoming a reasonable servant. He
was an old man now, thin and slightly seedy, with greasy hair and
depressed eyes. Kit said he was like a waiter in a boulevard café and in
the early days had remonstrated with Zoff about him.

“But he never sleeps, _mon ami_,” she had protested. “It is such an
accomplishment.”

So Felix had remained and here he was still, creeping about in black
felt slippers, serving sloppily, and listening to the conversation
without pretence. Tonight he did remember to pull out the chair,
however, and Kit sat down gratefully to tepid soup and his dear Margot.

“I started,” said Victor. “I hope you’ll forgive me. I sat watching a
slice of carrot congealing and I felt it or I should be put out of our
misery. The Law has departed, has it?”

“At last.” Kit scowled over his spoon. “An unfortunate business, safely
concluded,” he added with a finality calculated to silence even Victor.
“Zoff given us anything to drink?”

Felix filled his glass with sherry. “Imported by the Government,
m’sieu.”

Kit received the bad news philosophically. “And then?”

“Then the Latour, m’sieu, since Mademoiselle has returned.”

Kit’s smile re-emerged and he dropped a hand over Margot’s.

“So nice to see you, my dear,” he said, meaning it. “Nice about the
Latour too, eh? I cursed Zoff’s baggage when she arrived, but I see her
wisdom now. We had a furniture van to bring her trunks from the docks.
The war had started to—God bless my soul, I don’t know how she did it.”

“_Les pourboires._” Fortunately Felix did not speak aloud, although his
lips formed the words. Experience had taught him not to interject
remarks when Sir Kit was at table, but he still made a token of doing so
to prove to himself that he was not subservient. When Zoff noticed the
manœuvre it amused her immensely.

“This may be the wrong moment, but I should like to hear—” Victor was
beginning when Margot shook her head at him.

“The meal is special for me,” she said. “We’re having everything I like
best, as far as it’s possible these days. How’s that for a welcome
home?”

Victor shrugged his shoulders. “Have it your own way,” he said
irritatingly, “but I can’t see that this is a thing we can laugh off. At
least someone ought to warn Denis not to come here.”

“My dear fellow”—Sir Kit passed a weary hand over his forehead—“my
dear, dear fellow, not with the Latour, eh?”

“As you wish.” Victor seemed determined to behave like a spoilt child.
“I only feel you’re making a dangerous mistake in taking it for granted
that Zoff didn’t realise quite what she was saying. I can’t put it any
plainer than that, can I?”

Sir Kit laid down his knife and fork. “Zoff has withdrawn her
disgraceful accusation against Denis,” he said slowly. “She has taken
back every word of it in front of the police. Really, you know, I think
we must leave it there.”

“I heard about that from Gen’vieve. All the same, if Zoff ever
believed——”

“Really, Victor.” Sir Kit’s fury was mounting dangerously. “I shall be
obliged if you will let this disgraceful subject drop. Young Cotton has
been slandered, actionably so, don’t doubt that. The very least we can
do is to be silent. Zoff must be out of her mind and Denis has my
profound sympathy.”

“That’s very nice of you, Sir Kit.” The voice from the doorway behind
them was very deep. The tone was casual and friendly, but the actual
timbre was characteristic and unforgettable. Margot swung round at it,
Victor was silenced, and the atmosphere of the room changed as a new
force flowed into it.

“Denis, my dear fellow.” Sir Kit placed his glass in safety and prepared
to rise.

“Please don’t, sir.” The newcomer advanced to shake hands, the light
from the candles on the table lending him an elegance which was not his
by right. He was strong and compact, taller than Victor and a shade more
heavily built. In face he bore no likeness whatever to his cousin. He
was fair, with a firm, ugly jaw and grave, deep-set eyes, and he did not
belong to Victor’s world nor yet to Kit’s. There was a modern
utilitarian sturdiness about him which made them both look a little
old-fashioned. “I’m sorry I’m late,” he said, “but the trains were
against me. Gen’vieve let me in and sent me straight here. Hallo,
Margot. Hallo, Soubise. I’ll come and sit over there by you, Victor, if
I may—so I can look at you, Margot.”

He was more at ease than any of them, and the most outstanding thing
about him was a certain authority, as vigorous in its way as Zoff’s own.
They were all attracted to him and all resented it. The clash stimulated
the conversation and yet constrained it, and the faint note of
uneasiness, almost of danger, which had been sounding in the house ever
since Margot entered it became more apparent as the meal progressed. Kit
kept the ball rolling gallantly and Denis assisted him, but the other
two were unusually silent. And yet it was on Felix that Denis had the
most visible effect. For a time, at any rate, he waited almost well,
exhibiting a most uncharacteristic deference. So Felix remembered a jaw
and a voice like that also, did he? Sir Kit had forgotten the ruffian
had been in service so many years.

With the ices came Zoff’s second surprise for the homecomer, a bottle of
pink champagne. It was far too sweet for Kit’s taste, but the sight of
it delighted him. For a minute or two it brought back to him a lost
world which had been very lovely, so that there he was again in it with
a beautiful girl laughing at him over a tall glass while little scented
bubbles danced between them. He was suddenly so happy that he had
forgotten the trials of the day, and it was with a wave of pure rage
that he heard Victor breaking into the chatter.

“How much longer have you over here, Cotton?”

“At the hospital? About three weeks.”

“And you go back at once after that?”

“Good heavens, yes!” The youngster was fervent. “I’ve been away too long
already.”

“Is there so much to do?” It was Margot. She was sitting up straight,
watching him with eyes as darkly blue as the china of her plate.

“So much that I——” he began, and broke off, laughing. “I told her,” he
said, turning to Kit. “I sat and told her until the waiters put the
chairs on the café tables. I talked and talked until my voice gave out
and she was white with exhaustion. There is a lot to do, of course. The
upheaval has unleashed God knows what. It’ll take a lifetime to get it
under, and that means hurry.”

He spoke without affectation, and Sir Kit warmed to him.

“I saw my old friend Anthony Watkin the other day,” he remarked. “He
tells me you’re doing rather brilliantly at St. Mark’s. That so?”

Denis coloured. “That was very handsome of him,” he said. “I had a
certain amount of experience with the Maquis, of course.”

“You’re a surgeon?”

“I hope to specialise on that side.”

“Good luck to you,” said Sir Kit, making the cliché heartfelt.

“Good luck to you, indeed,” agreed Victor seriously. “As a life it
sounds like hell to me. I don’t think I could face Europe these days.
People in the mass give me the horrors, even when they’re not displaced.
Three weeks, you say? Then you probably won’t be coming down here again.
I think that’s wise.” He spoke with apparent sincerity, and Denis turned
in his chair.

“You mean that kindly, I hope?” he said, laughing.

“I do.” Victor’s heavy lids disappeared into his head, leaving his eyes
unexpectedly disarming. “I do. I simply felt you ought to be told. And
the others ought to realise it too. Zoff wouldn’t do a really dreadful
thing like this out of mere caprice. You don’t know Zoff.”

The final injustice was too much for Sir Kit, who all but choked. Margot
intervened.

“Zoff’s is a world of italics,” she said. “Don’t let’s be muddled by it.
I haven’t gathered the exact details of the present excitement, but I
suppose Zoff has been to the police again about her jewels. Isn’t that
it? And I suppose that this time she’s mentioned Denis, because he’s the
newest arrival. It’s very awkward, I know, but then it always is, isn’t
it? Zoff’s jewellery has been the centre of family crises ever since we
were children. Practically the first thing I remember is Zoff losing an
emerald earring and accusing Gen’vieve of selling it to buy candles to
coax a husband out of St. Catherine.”

There was an uncomfortable silence as she finished, and even the clatter
Felix made with the fruit plates sounded nervous. Denis drew a pattern
with his forefinger in a patch of salt which had been spilled on the
polished wood. When at last he looked up at her his smile was
apologetic.

“My grandmother isn’t very keen on me,” he said, evidently attempting to
make the statement as light as he could. “I’m afraid she feels I may be
overanxious to inherit the money I need for my clinic in Caen, and when
I told her I was coming down today she appealed for police protection.
I’m afraid she thinks I may attempt to kill her. That’s it, isn’t it,
Sir Kit?”

“Oh—oh dear,” said Margot inadequately. “She couldn’t have _meant_ it.
I mean, I’ve never known her to do anything quite so dreadful as this.
But she wouldn’t really honestly mean it. Zoff—well, Zoff does do
things.”

“What did you say to her upstairs that made her change her mind?” Victor
put the question curiously, his eyes on her face. They were all looking
at her and she spread out her hands.

“Nothing. I didn’t even know about it, you see. I only had ten minutes
or so with her when I was changing.” Her voice died away as the truth
dawned on her with sudden brutality. Zoff _knew_. Of course. In some
terrifying intuitive way of her own, Zoff had found out. As soon as Zoff
had seen her she had known about the humiliating thing that had happened
to her, the same thing which even now was tying up her tongue and
playing exasperating tricks with her breath.

Zoff had not been surprised, that was one mercy. There was no folly in
the whole repertoire of womankind which was unknown to Zoff. It would
never have struck her as incomprehensible that a successful,
sought-after young woman, experienced and sophisticated, should find
herself helpless and unhappy because she could not forget even for an
hour a fanatic with a pleasant voice whose heart was set on other
things. Even the fact that this miracle should have happened after only
two meetings would not have astonished Zoff. She would have seen it as a
disaster but not an improbability.

Her first act had been typically practical. Immediately on the discovery
she had withdrawn at once an accusation which was so outrageous that it
must increase the young man’s interestingness to any attracted eye.
Margot felt a stab of apprehension. Zoff was never discreet. It was bad
enough to suffer this lovely cruelty without the knowledge that it was
being discussed.

She crept guiltily out of her thoughts, to find Kit doing his best to
save the ruin of a fine dinner.

“Felix,” he was saying, “as the oldest guest present, I think I might
tell you to go and find some of our hostess’s Courvoisier.”

“Madame said to serve the Napoleon tonight, m’sieu.”

“Good heavens, has she still got some?” Sir Kit was startled out of all
his troubles. “An amazing woman,” he said reverently. “Well, well,
Margot, my dear, you must come home again.”

So Zoff had raised her little finger and twiddled poor Kit round it once
more. Yet damage had been done. The three young people were quiet and
there was constraint between them, while the rain on the windows made
angry little patches of sound in the long silences.


                                 THREE

The drawing room at Clough House, Bridgewyck, had been designed in a
quiet age. Its white panelled walls were not very tall but in their time
they had embraced with ease twenty couples at the polka, and they were
hung with old colour engravings in delicate oval frames. Kit’s aunt
Birdwood had left her best walnut there and, dotted about on the
flowered carpet like vast old ladies picnicking, were companies of wing
armchairs with wide, hard seats and chintz petticoats half hiding their
stout claw feet.

Into this prim haven Zoff had crammed her own more flamboyant treasures,
and the effect was both disturbing and a mite exciting, as if Madame de
Pompadour had come to tea with Jane Austen.

Felix served coffee there after dinner, another concession to Sir Kit,
who enjoyed the small formality. There was a coal fire on the hearth,
the faded silk curtains were drawn against the rain, and when Margot was
safely settled behind the silver tray the old man came sauntering in,
neat and happy, a cigar between his lips. She glanced up at him slyly
and thought how charming he was and yet how pathetic, as he enjoyed so
eagerly the little scraps of elegance left in a world from which the
silver plate had almost worn away.

“They’ve gone out to look at Victor’s car,” he said, smiling down at her
from his halo of blue smoke. “They’ll be in in a moment. It’s an
extraordinary thing how young men always want to inspect the fashionable
method of locomotion the moment they’ve been properly fed. In my day we
always trotted out to look at each other’s horses, the things truly
nearest our hearts, I suppose. Very interesting. You look very
beautiful, my dear.”

“Thank you, darling. Or isn’t that right? What ought one to say to that
remark? I never know.”

“Nothing clever,” he said promptly. “No sugar, my dear. Just the black
coffee. Well, that passed off very well, considering, didn’t you think?
Denis behaved excellently, I thought.”

Margot lay back in her chair, the deep blue of her dress enhancing the
whiteness of her arms as they lay upon it.

“Not one of Zoff’s jollier performances, though,” she said at last.

“No,” he agreed, “but still a Zoff. That made it all right, you know. It
always has, and please God it always will. You were quite right when you
said she lives her life in italics. She does, and everybody knows it, so
it doesn’t matter.”

He sat down a little wearily and drew his chair closer to the fire.

“A dreadful accusation,” he said. “Monstrous, of course. If anyone else
had made it I don’t know what one could have said about it. But you see,
everybody recognises Zoff’s exaggerated temperament, if only
subconsciously. No one took this seriously, not even the police.” He
sighed. “That’s that, then,” he said.

Margot was silent. She sat looking at the blue flames among the red
coals and the forefront of her mind was busy, or attempting to be busy,
with Zoff and Kit in an idle speculation on the kind of relationship
which must once have existed between them to produce this simple
fidelity in him. But in the back of her mind she knew that she was
waiting, listening, hoping for Denis to come in. While resenting the
fact bitterly, she could not escape from it. Once she fancied she did
hear a step in the hall and her heart stirred roughly, disturbing her
breath. She frowned and sat up impatiently.

“Kit, oughtn’t we to get Zoff to go home to Cap d’Azur?”

“Eh?” He came out of his thoughts with a start. “I wish you would, my
dear. I don’t know how much she’s said to you, but I admit I’ve gone so
far as to suggest it. I’m in the devil of a position. This is my son’s
house. I made it over to him some years ago. Kind of a wedding present,
as a matter of fact. Then the war came and he was kept in India and I
offered it, with his consent, to Zoff for the duration. Now he’s on his
way home with a wife and young children and naturally he expects to live
in it.” He paused and shook his head. “She’s not even happy here,” he
said sadly. “Between ourselves, she’s been very dissatisfied. First it
was the cooking arrangements. Then she said the place was infested with
flies, and we saw to that. And now she thinks the rooms are too small.
Yet she won’t let me have her flown back to the South. She could be
there in a few hours, you know. She’s thinking about her luggage.
There’s a ton of it and she’d have to have it crated and sent on after
her. She doesn’t like that.”

He glanced around the room and she followed his eyes. Zoff’s belongings
were everywhere, none of them looking particularly moveable. The
Vincennes candelabras alone—each slender branch a mass of exquisite
porcelain flowers—presented an alarming packing problem.

“Hullo, clock stopped.” He got up and trotted across the room. “That
won’t do. Zoff’s superstitious about things like that.”

The clock was a great possession. It had been made by Jerome Martinet
for Henri XIV and it stood over four feet high, a graceful if
extravagant gesture in ormolu and buhl, with a bold enamel face and a
gilt Father Time on its crest. The screws supporting its heavy bracket
must have defaced Aunt Birdwood’s pitch-pine panelling and its
flamboyance made the Wheatleys pale, but taken by itself, it was a
lovely thing. Zoff adored it. It had been given her by a king and she
insisted on taking it with her everywhere she went, despite Genevieve’s
protests that she might more conveniently have adopted a steam roller as
a mascot.

Margot sat watching Kit’s precise back as he unlocked the case.

“All right?” she enquired.

“Margot, come here.” His tone startled her and sent her over to him.

“What is it?” she demanded, and he stepped back to show her.

The hands of the clock were slender and finely wrought but they were
made of iron and were very strong. And yet someone had forced them out
of the true, wrenching the pins and twisting the points. Inside, the
pendulum lay flat in the case, its shaft broken in two.

She stood staring at the damage, the senseless spite of it sending the
colour out of her face. In this house, where so much had been talked of
mock violence, this example of the genuine thing was startling. Someone
had been considerably exerted to do wanton harm. In Aunt Birdwood’s
drawing room the discovery seemed blankly incredible.

“I can’t believe it,” she said.

“Touch the bell, will you, my dear?” Kit’s head was still half in the
clock.

Felix arrived after an interval. He came sidling round the door, openly
reproachful at the extra journey, but when he saw the trouble his jaw
dropped.

“_Sacré!_” he said and burst into a noisy flood of patois. “It is a
portent, this. A bad omen. There is an enemy. Someone, some vandal, some
unspeakable _sale cochon_ has been in the house. We shall have serious
trouble. Madame will be enraged. She must be told at once. Possibly it
will kill her.”

“All the more reason she should not be told.” Kit spoke testily. “Don’t
make such an infernal noise, Felix. Don’t be a fool, my man. Pull
yourself together. Go and fetch Gen’vieve and—and no word to Madame. I
never did like that fellow,” he added as the door closed. “An unbalanced
boor and a damned bad servant, in my opinion. A nasty business, this,
Margot. Some wretched charwoman with a grievance, I suppose.”

“A very strong charwoman.” Margot spoke absently and found him staring
at her. He opened his mouth to speak and changed his mind.

He was holding the pendulum shaft and peering at the break through one
glass of his pince-nez when Genevieve appeared with Felix behind her.
She was furious; the very set of her head shawl betrayed it. Her sturdy
figure advanced on the clock, her small eyes surveyed it, and then she
faced them.

“_Mon Dieu_, Margot, you have only been back ten minutes and then this
occurs. Madame will be beside herself.”

Kit grimaced. “Neither myself nor Miss Margot are guilty,” he said with
that touch of superiority which always annoyed Genevieve. “You have some
cleaner with a grudge against you, I’m afraid.”

“There is no cleaner save myself.” The old woman’s French was as broad
as her bosom. “Do you think I would permit one of these clumsy
foreigners in here with Madame’s priceless valuables? No! If I did, this
is what I should expect. One of this household has done this. I know
what Madame will say.”

“But, Gen’vieve, that’s ridiculous and it’s also very rude.” Margot’s
protest was firm. “Was the clock all right when you came in to light the
fire?”

“Naturally it was. Poor Madame, this will set her off again on her
terrors. I tell you, _petite_, I know what I know.”

“They have no sense of insult.” Sir Kit made the observation with
infuriating detachment. “I’ve noticed it time and again. Gen’vieve, that
will do. Not a word to Madame Zoffany. I’ll get a man in at once and
we’ll get everything put right before she hears of it. We can go into
the mystery later. The repairs are the main thing. Meanwhile you must
keep her out of this room if you can.”

Some of the fury died out of Genevieve’s eyes at this promise of escape
from the storm she anticipated, but she was still flustered.

“It will not be difficult,” she said drily. “_Monsieur le docteur_ is
with her now.”

“The doctor?”

“He was expected. It was arranged yesterday. Madame desires Mademoiselle
to see him.”

Kit glanced questioningly at Margot, but she shook her head.

“This is the first I’ve heard of it. I’ll come up with you now,
Gen’vieve. Kit, my dear, are you sure we can leave this to you? It seems
a frightful imposition.”

“Yes, yes, run along. I’ll see to it. Don’t tell Zoff.”

Felix shuffled forward. “Madame will expect to know,” he murmured, but
wilted before the look that Kit gave him.

Genevieve touched the ormolu moulding with a caressing forefinger.

“_Quel dommage_,” she said softly. “It is a horror, this, to happen to
such an old friend. Come, mademoiselle.”

Margot went after her. Why Zoff should have arranged for her to
interview her doctor at this time of night she had no idea. It signified
nothing, of course. In that house Zoff’s whim was the only reason for
everything.

A recollection occurred to her as she walked slowly up the stairs behind
the panting old woman.

“I have to go to London tomorrow. There’s a luncheon. It’s being given
for me. I’ll be back in the evening.”

“So much the better.” Genevieve was breathing heavily. “It is not right
that Madame should be alone with this young Cotton.”

“That’s idiotic, darling.”

“Very well.” Genevieve paused on the step to raise a crumpled, angry
face. “See _monsieur le docteur_, and if Madame is mistaken, then tell
me this: why does he come? Nobody wants him. Why does he come?”

Margot had nothing to say. The question had been there in her own mind.

“You see?” Genevieve was breathless. “It is quite possible that Madame
is not being mistaken. It is possible that he has something in mind.”
She went on again, hauling her heavy body upward by the banisters. Once
on the landing, she glanced round. “Ah,” she said, “here is _monsieur le
docteur_ waiting. M’sieu, permit me, this is Mademoiselle Robert.
Mademoiselle, _monsieur le docteur_ Phillip Ledbury.”

Margot turned to meet Zoff’s latest doctor. After years of experience
she was prepared to find him of any variety, eminent, unknown or witch,
yet the man who came smoothly toward her, his hand outstretched, was
unexpected. He was young, and gravely good-looking in a way long since
out of fashion. Sleek golden hair flowed back from his high forehead.
Perfect features were covered with a milky skin, and the hand which
touched hers was long and white and gentle. His aplomb was superb. He
swooped down upon her and gathered her into his confidence in an
instant.

“Oh, I’m so glad to meet you, Mademoiselle Robert, I wonder if we could
go in here and talk for a moment? I don’t know whose room it is. Oh,
yours? Splendid. I just want a few words with you in private. You’ll go
in to Madame Zoffany, will you, Gen’vieve? You’ll find her perfectly
comfortable, I think. Just see she keeps the lights lowered tonight,
won’t you? I think she’s been a little unwise to read and write by
artificial light. That’s all right, then. In here, Mademoiselle Robert.”

He parted them and swept them into the two doors with the ease and
energy of a sheep dog at the trials. He talked all the time, his voice
brisk and persuasive, but he did not smile. Not even a polite curl
disturbed the perfection of his mouth or lit the cold greyness of his
eyes.

Margot went into the bedroom, and he followed her and seated himself
upon the bed without apology.

“It’s so difficult to speak frankly before servants, however old and
trusted, don’t you think? I wonder if you’ll smoke? You won’t? Oh,
splendid. But do if you’d rather.” He put away his case with a little
snap, drew up one knee, which he clasped, and surveyed her earnestly
over it.

“Now I know you’re not a grandchild,” he began. “Zoff—she lets me call
her Zoff, by the way, because she knew my grandfather in Vienna, which
is rather sweet of her—well, Zoff has explained everything to me, and I
saw at once, of course, that you were the person with whom I should have
my little chat.”

Margot nodded encouragingly. She had placed him now as a product of one
of the older universities who for some family reason must have taken up
medicine. His type abounded in the other professions. She sat down on
the dressing stool.

“What do you want me to do?”

“Ah, you see that, do you? That’s very good. Quite excellent. Sometimes
relatives don’t realise their responsibilities.” He was still unsmiling,
still clasping one long, thin shin. “Of course my sole interest is in my
patient. You do understand that, don’t you? I’m not in the least
concerned with dear old Zoff’s family affairs, but I am most desperately
interested in her health.”

“Naturally,” she murmured, and he cocked an eyebrow at her and relaxed a
little.

“At any rate, I’m convinced of one thing. She must not be allowed to see
this young Maquis recruit of a grandson of hers again. As her doctor I
forbid it. I can’t put it plainer, can I?”

“I don’t suppose you can,” she said stiffly. Her first reaction was one
of intense irritation. His airy reference to Denis’s war service was
distasteful. But her next thought was more disturbing. Surely no
professional man would make a statement like this without good reason?
Something must have been happening in this big, brightly lit house that
she did not understand at all.

The doctor was still talking.

“I am relying on you to see that I am obeyed,” he was saying. “They must
not meet, either alone or with other people present. She is wonderfully
strong constitutionally, but there’s a definite heart murmur there and
of course she’s not young. The time has come when she must take care of
herself.”

Margot looked at him in astonishment. This description of Zoff’s heart
trouble was very different from the picture she had received from the
woman herself.

“I thought she was seriously ill,” she said.

“Seriously but not dangerously,” he corrected her pedantically. “The
actual condition is not alarming, or even unusual, in one of her age,
but those two attacks were so extraordinary—and, if I may say so
between ourselves, so significant—that I really must insist that every
possible precaution is taken. I do hope I make myself clear.”

“I don’t think I know about the attacks.” She was sitting up stiffly,
her head a little on one side, her eyes alarmed. She looked very lovely
and he warmed to her, betraying his youth in a sudden burst of
confidence.

“Oh well, if they haven’t told you, I can understand,” he said. “It
really is the oddest thing, and to be frank, I’ve never seen anything
like it and I’d have pressed for another opinion if she hadn’t made such
a complete recovery. It’s probably some kind of hysteria, although she’s
hardly that kind of subject, is she, d’you think?”

Margot shook her head.

“No,” he agreed quickly. “Highly strung and temperamental, of course,
but hardly hysterical. And yet, on the evidence, I can’t account for it
in any other way. I’ve not been her medical adviser for very long. She
used to call in old Dr. Kay from Peter Street, and then found him rather
unsympathetic, I’m afraid, and sent for me. I’ve been attending her for
about three months now. She was going on perfectly well, I thought, and
then one day a most extraordinary thing happened.” He paused to fix
Margot with his pale, unsmiling eyes. “Gen’vieve sent for me in a great
state and I found Madame in a very curious condition. She had been very
excited and almost incoherent, Gen’vieve told me, and had then appeared
to faint. She had come round by the time I arrived, and although there
was evidence of some exhaustion, there was nothing to worry about.
Gen’vieve had propped her up by an open window, and although I examined
her thoroughly, I found very little amiss. Yet something had happened.
Her story was that she had been talking to her grandson from the Maquis
alone in the drawing room, and that after he left her she lost
consciousness.”

He hesitated.

“I could see she didn’t like the man, of course,” he said, “but she was
semidelirious when Gen’vieve came in and she was alone then. I shouldn’t
have taken it very seriously if it hadn’t happened again on his next
visit. This alarms you, does it?”

Margot drew her glance from his face and got up.

“No,” she said. “No, I don’t think it does, not yet.”

“Have you ever known anything like it to happen to her before?”

“No, I haven’t, but—but are you sure, Doctor, that Mr. Cotton had
anything to do with this at all?”

“Naturally I’m not, or I should have had to take some action.” His voice
ran on easily. He was enjoying it, she thought wryly.

“But he was in the house each time, and each time, significantly enough,
he had just left her when the attack occurred.”

“Was Denis there the second time?”

“Oh yes. Zoff was in her bedroom and Denis Cotton had gone in to say
good-bye to her. Gen’vieve heard him leave the house and then went up to
her mistress. She found her lying on her bed, her handkerchief pressed
to her lips. She was practically unconscious. Fortunately Gen’vieve
carried her to the window, drenched her with eau de cologne, and then
had the sense to ring me. When I came, Zoff was weak but quite normal,
save for a slight worsening of the heart condition and some nausea. She
could tell me nothing, except—which seemed to me to be rather cogent,
you know—that she did not remember Cotton going.”

“I see.” Margot spoke huskily. “Have you spoken to Denis?”

“I? Good heavens, no!” He seemed scandalised. “That’s not my province.
No, my duty is to protect my patient and then, if I am convinced that an
attack is being made on her, to inform the police. I’m a doctor. I can’t
go interfering in anything that is not my direct concern. I did feel I
should speak to someone other than a servant, though, and Zoff begged me
to come this evening and see you. To be honest, I expected someone
older.”

He was still very self-possessed, still happy in his own importance.

“Do you think you can enforce my orders? She mustn’t see him this time.
If he’s heard anything about it at all, I am amazed that he came again.”

Margot ignored the final comment.

“No,” she said slowly. “No, he mustn’t see her again. I do understand
that. For both their sakes . . . It’s a coincidence, of course, or else,
as you say, some sort of hysterical seizure. Are you sure there was
nothing else to explain it, Doctor?”

“I’m not infallible,” he said with dignity, “but I’ve found nothing to
account for it. On each occasion recovery was complete in twenty-four
hours. I haven’t made any official complaint, for the elementary reason
that I’ve no evidence against anybody. However, should something else
occur whilst Mr. Cotton was again in the house, well, the probability of
it being another coincidence would be rather strained, wouldn’t it?”

He was silent for an instant, but added almost immediately:

“Believe me, I know it’s very awkward, but you do see the need for
caution, I hope?”

“I do. You can rely on me,” she agreed quickly. “It’s some sort of nerve
storm, of course, brought on by the sight of Denis, if that’s possible.
She’s never liked him, you see. She quarrelled with his mother.”

To her relief he knew the story.

“That was the elder daughter, of course?” he said. “The one there was
the case about?”

She nodded and he sat looking at her earnestly.

“It’s terribly fascinating, you know,” he remarked unexpectedly,
“especially in view of all the new work that has been done in the
psychotherapeutic field lately. There’s probably quite a fixation
there—desperately interesting. We’ll get Brogan or McPhail to see her
later on. Meanwhile I’ll leave it to you. I shall drop in tomorrow,
probably in the afternoon, just to jolly her along.”

He got up and moved over to the door, his golden head a good foot above
her own. As he passed her he hesitated.

“In your opinion this Denis person couldn’t possibly have done
anything—stupid? Is that so?”

It was on the tip of her tongue to tell him that the very notion of it
was ridiculous, but a thought checked her. Denis was a complete mystery
to her. She believed with all her heart that he could do nothing that
was not wholly right, but she was still sane enough to realise that the
belief was based on nothing more than a desire that it should be so. The
overwhelming feeling she had for him was certainly not based on a
careful assessment of his character. She knew nothing about him that he
had not conveyed to her himself. All the rest was conjecture. Now there
was this story, odd and frightening as the doctor told it.

“I’ve startled you,” said young Dr. Ledbury. “Perhaps I ought not to
have put it quite so baldly. But do look after her, Mademoiselle Robert.
Don’t forget I’m trusting her to your care absolutely. Don’t trouble to
see me downstairs. I can very well let myself out. Go in to her now,
will you? She really is quite the most wonderful person.”

The final remark escaped him involuntarily and Margot smiled. So Zoff
had made another conquest. All her life Margot had watched that happen.
Young men, old men, men who had reached the middle age when women bored
them, they all fell for Zoff and all in the same surprised and boyish
way.

“I’ll come tomorrow, tell her,” said the doctor, disappearing down the
stairs. “Tell her not to worry about anything, anything at all.”

His voice faded and she heard his feet reach the tiles of the hall.

“Margot!” The thrilling whisper sped across the landing. “Isn’t he
_superbe_?”

It was Zoff, of course. She was standing on the threshold of her
bedroom, swaddled in shawls, her black eyes shining out of foaming
Shetland wool. Margot hurried over to her.

“You’ll catch cold,” she said. “What are you doing wandering about in
your nightie?”

Zoff’s strong fingers caught her arm and they went into the huge warm
room together. Zoff was laughing.

“I wanted to see him,” she said. “When poor Cortot played Hernani to my
Doña Sol, he had just such a profile, believe it or not. He was just
such a man, too. The good God gave him beauty and said, ‘My friend, that
is enough, be content. Someone else must have the intelligence.’”

“But, darling, is it wise to have that kind of _doctor_?” Margot was
inveigling her toward the mighty bed, with its dolphins, its cupids and
rococo cornucopias. Zoff did not answer immediately but indicated a
motif on the headboard of the edifice with some pride.

“Wet flowers growing out a golden cream horn,” she said devastatingly.
“Kit would have married me when his wife died—I think of her in hell
sometimes, do you know—if my taste had not been so horrible. I _adore_
this bed! The poor, beautiful doctor is stupid, you say?”

“No, I didn’t, as you very well know. I only felt that you might have
had someone more experienced.”

“I will when I have pain.” Zoff climbed into her couch with considerable
agility. “Just now I am only tired. When I have pain I will endure an
old and ugly doctor. Whose brains stick out in lumps all over his head.
Meanwhile, this boy is charming. He talks so much, do you notice? It
never stops, the pleasant British voice. And he is so delighted to be
attending me. I am his star patient. While he is killing the others
doubtless he tells them about me. There, now I am warm again. Sit here
beside me on the bed, _petite_.”

Margot settled herself obediently. The stiff folds of her gown made a
dark shadow on the peach coverlet.

“What about these attacks, Zoff?”

Zoff’s hand closed over her own, but the reply did not come immediately
and when it did it was uncharacteristically evasive.

“They are both old women, Gen’vieve and the doctor. It is quite possible
that I fainted only.” She was sitting upright, her eyes thoughtful as
she contemplated the shadows at the far end of the room.

“Do you expect me to believe that?”

“I do not care what you believe, _chérie_.” Her hand was still firm and
possessive. “I do not want to talk about the two contretemps. It is even
possible that I am a little frightened.” She shivered, a gesture so
unlike herself as to be startling.

“Don’t.” The girl spoke sharply. “You’ll frighten me. Would you like me
to call Gen’vieve? Where is she?”

“Gone up to her own room. Don’t call her. She’s an old fool, Margot. No
eyes, no nose, no ears. Nothing but a big heart. Poor Zoff, surrounded
by fools! What else did my doctor tell you? Well?”

“He said you were not to see Denis any more.”

“Ah. And do you think that is wise?”

“I?”

“Yes, you, mademoiselle. You, my _petite_.” She was suddenly at her
fiercest, her eyes black diamonds again. “Do you agree?”

“I don’t know.” Margot released herself gently. “If he upsets you, of
course——”

“Upsets me!” Zoff mimicked her contemptuously.

“Well, at any rate, you’re not going to see him. That’s been arranged.
We’ll pack him off tonight if you like. I don’t think he can realise it,
you know. He——”

“Margot.” A vicious hand caught her wrist again. “I am disgustingly old,
and the shame of being old is that one is still young. One still
_knows_.”

“Darling, once and for all, as far as Denis and I are concerned there is
nothing to know.”

“How true is that?”

“Utterly. I told you. Some months ago we had some greasy spaghetti
together and talked of _la patrie_. We met twice.”

“To meet once,” said Zoff, “to see each other from the window of a
taxicab, is enough for love if one is alive.”

“Not nowadays, dearest.” The girl dropped a kiss on the white shawl.
“You’re a romantic, Zoff. We don’t love so extravagantly in these hard
times.”

“But how sordid!” Zoff was becoming herself again as she was half
reassured. “It is a good thing,” she went on more seriously. “All those
D’Hivers were strange men. The grandfather of this Denis, my first
husband. _Mon Dieu_, what a monster when once one knew! But be careful,
Margot. There was always something in that family in the men—the women,
my dear, were dull provincials and so _ugly_—which was extraordinary.
They could hold spellbound any woman for a little time. They held in
their faces, in their voices, in their thick, strong bodies a sort of
promise—do you understand?—a promise of something unknown and fearful
and yet so beautiful it broke one’s heart.”

She closed her eyes and the lids, which were like Victor’s, showed
paper-fine. Presently she laughed.

“I am _jeune fille_ again, so undignified. _Jeune fille_, with great
bags under the eyes and no hair to speak of. What a horrible sense of
humor he has, the _bon Dieu_. Well, as I was saying, the D’Hivers had a
charm which was dangerous to the warm and impulsive hearts. But when one
tore back the sheet, what did one see? Not a cloven hoof—_ma foi!_ one
could have forgiven that——but a whole chest and stomach of stone. They
do not care, that family. They have nothing to care with. They go their
way, and if you are in it they tread on your neck. I know. They have no
fear and they never love in return.”

Margot was listening to her, fascinated. This was a Zoff she hardly
knew, speaking with a sincerity she seldom displayed. It was impossible
not to be impressed by it. Up here in the big over-scented room it was
easy for Margot to slide back into the sophisticated world of her
childhood in which Denis had no place. Presently she began to feel
liberated, as if the bondage of the last few months had disappeared. It
was an odd experience, as embarrassing and unreasonable as her first
violent attraction. Zoff was still talking.

“Gen’vieve tells me that you go back to London tomorrow for a luncheon.
It is in your honour, I hope?”

“Yes, at the Ivy. Monsieur Bonnet wants to tell me I have been a clever
girl.”

“Naturally. What will you wear?”

They talked clothes for some time. Zoff was in tremendous form, racy,
practical and inspired by turns, and gradually under her magic touch the
exciting world of fashion and the theatre slid into focus again for
Margot, and all its old appeal returned. The weariness of travel, the
long hours, exacting parts, even the essential loneliness of the artist,
disappeared before the glow and promise of the haze of glory at the top
of the tree.

By the time Madame Zoffany was prepared to attempt to sleep all the
alarms of the evening were in the background. Margot returned to them
with something of dismay. She took up a tray from the bed table.

“I’ll take this down for Gen’vieve,” she said. “She’s growing old, Zoff,
and the stairs are killing her. We must get someone younger to do the
running about.”

“Nonsense, she’s younger than I. She is tired because she is so fat, the
great elephant.” The exacting Zoff, who was so mean over little things,
had returned with a rush. “It does her good,” she said airily. “Good
night, _petite_. Come and kiss me in the morning so I may see your hat.”

Margot left her lying peacefully in the outrageous bed and went down the
staircase to the basement. Everywhere was so very well lit that a
shocking suspicion occurred to her that poor Kit must be footing the
power bill. There was no escaping it; Zoff was quite abominable in some
matters.

She found the kitchen cluttered by a great charcoal stove which was
obviously a recent acquisition. Another demand on Kit, no doubt. The
room was deserted when she entered it, but at the sound of her step
Felix appeared from a pantry. He looked startled and sulky, and to her
amazement she saw his cheeks were wet. In the twenty years she had known
him she had seen him in many conditions of emotional deshabille, but the
secret weeping was something new.

“Why, Felix, what’s the matter?” she demanded. “What is it? What’s
happened?”

He stood before her, a forlorn figure in shirt sleeves. There were
grease spots on his tie, on his waistcoat, even on the felt slippers on
his sore feet. The moisture on his pallid face was both pathetic and
ridiculous.

“I am low-spirited,” he said, the French enhancing the statement. “It is
nothing, nothing at all. Unless”—he hesitated hopefully—“perhaps
Mademoiselle could influence Madame?”

“I could try, anyway,” she said encouragingly. “Cheer up, Felix. What in
the world is it?”

He perched himself on the kitchen table and brought long hands into play
as he talked. Everything about him save his eyes, which were sombre, was
slightly absurd.

“Mademoiselle Margot, it is like this. I have heard from Grenoble that
my old father is very shaky. The time must come soon when he will die.”

“I am sorry, Felix. I didn’t know.”

“Oh well, he is old, mademoiselle. He has had a good life. The end comes
to everybody.”

She digested this philosophy and began to understand.

“He still has the bakery, has he?”

“_Précisément._ There is the little shop which you remember. I took you
there when you were a small child. It has been done up recently and is
doing a good trade. There is also the house where I was born. It is full
of fine furniture of which my poor dead _maman_ was inordinately proud.
Behind that there is the orchard, with splendid apples planted by my
father. And behind that there is a magnificent piece of land. It is a
property, you understand.”

“Yes, I do, Felix, I do perfectly.” Margot was entirely serious. She
could remember the little white baker’s shop with the scrubbed shelves
and the great trays of apple pastry in the window. Squat and secure, it
lay by the side of the busy road, a symbol of the smallness, and the
smugness, and the security of petit-bourgeois France. She put the
pertinent question.

“Who is at home down there now?”

“Everybody.” His agony was ludicrous. “My eldest brother is in the house
with his wife and children; my second brother has moved into the town
and is in lodgings near by, working at a factory; my sister who married
the carpenter is at the end of the street; and my other sister’s little
farm is not more than twenty kilometres away in the country, and every
Sunday she brings her family to see their grandfather. Mademoiselle, you
will admit I should be there.”

“Of course. The inheritance is assured by law, we know, but it is
foolish not to be present as soon as any division is even considered.
The mother bird brings the worm for all the mouths in the nest, but it
goes hardly with the fledgling who is lying underneath the tree.”

The simile was unfortunate. Felix looked very like a fledgling in his
bedraggled black waistcoat and blue shirt sleeves. Margot was sorry for
him.

“Won’t Madame let you go?” she enquired.

“But yes.” He was voluble. “I may go tomorrow. But if so, I am not to
return and Madame strikes out of her will the five hundred thousand
francs which is bequeathed to me. It is much too much to lose,
mademoiselle. But meanwhile my sister writes to say my father grows very
weak.”

It was a problem. Margot knew Zoff far too well to venture any rash
promises.

“I’ll try, Felix,” she said. “I must go to London in the morning, but
I’ll talk to her as soon as I get back. Don’t count on anything, but
we’ll do what we can. After all, Madame is a Frenchwoman. She
understands these family matters.”

“Yet it would not appear so from her manner toward Monsieur Denis.” The
muttered words were hardly audible and were clearly meant to be an
aside, but Margot’s face tingled as though she had received a little
blow. This must be an explanation of Denis’s visits, of course, but she
was loth to accept it. The whole matter was suddenly very distasteful.
Felix continued to look piteous.

“It is too much to lose,” he repeated. “I have been with Madame so long.
Yet I should only be away for a little time.”

“I’ll see,” she repeated. “I’ll try. I can’t promise to succeed, but I
will try.”

He sighed as if he knew already what the result would be, and she came
away, leaving him still sitting there on the table, sullen bitterness in
his eyes.


                                  FOUR

The hall was bright and so silent when she came up into it that the
sighing of her long skirts on the tiles sounded almost noisy. She was
not at all happy. Things were bad in the house. Everyone was frustrated
and a sense of unrest and vague menace was growing stronger all the
time. She had given up thinking about Denis. Every time he came into her
mind she thrust him out again. That folly had been scotched, she
decided, fortunately in time before she had done anything silly. The
escape from the petty cruelty which had tormented her was a great
relief, but all the same it had left a very weary emptiness behind it.

She turned into the drawing room expecting to find them all there, still
talking about the clock if she knew Victor. From her new mood of safety
she was prepared to regard Denis dispassionately and was half looking
forward to, half dreading, the experience. On the threshold she paused.
A gust of rain-soaked air met her and she closed the door behind her
quickly as the draught blew the silk window curtains out into the room.

She saw Denis at once. He was alone, standing before the French windows,
which were wide open. His back was toward her and he was looking out
into the wet darkness, but he turned at the sound of the latch and she
saw a frown sweep over his forehead as he caught sight of her.

He came back into the room reluctantly.

“I hope you don’t mind this. I don’t think the rain’s actually coming
in.” His deep, pleasant voice was unusually brusque and the ease which
was one of his principal characteristics was strained.

“No, I don’t mind.” She moved over to the fire as she spoke and stood on
the rug, her fair head framed against the prim carving of the
mantelpiece. The room was chilly, and here too the brightness of the
lights shed a hard unfriendliness over the mellow wood and faded
colouring of chintz and tapestry.

He started to stroll toward her but hesitated and half turned, as if he
were contemplating taking up his old position before the windows again.

“Where are the others?” she demanded and was irritated to find her voice
husky.

“Soubise has driven Sir Kit down to the town. They’re going to drag some
poor wretched clockmaker away from his supper. Someone’s torn up one of
the family heirlooms.”

He changed his mind again and wandered down toward her as he spoke. At
that moment she was more vividly aware of the look of the man than ever
before. One of Zoff’s remarks leapt into her mind. “In their faces, in
their voices, in their thick, strong bodies they held a sort of promise
. . .”

She took a vigorous hold of herself and her smile was casual.

“It’s a pity about the clock.”

“Oh, you knew, did you?” His eyes met hers briefly. “Yes, I suppose it
is. I hate that sort of baroque decoration, all gold pie-crust. But I
don’t like the damage either. It’s a little mad, isn’t it? It jolts me.
However, this house is reeking with that sort of thing. That’s why I
opened the windows, I suppose.”

“To let the baroquerie out?” she enquired, laughing. Her face was raised
to his and the light fell on her skin and on her beautiful mouth and
made narrow blue jewels out of her eyes. She was unconscious of the
effect and of the sudden colour which came into her face as his
expression changed.

“No,” he said, clinging to each trivial word as if it were some sort of
life line. “No, I opened the window because for some reason tonight I
could not breathe.”

The final word choked him and he put out his hand helplessly.

The kiss was very gentle. His arms folded round her as she leaned toward
him, and the first startled flicker of surprise in her eyes gave way to
another emotion before her lids covered them.

For a minute he held her hard, hurting her, hugging her against him as
if he were afraid she must vanish. And then suddenly he drew back
roughly and turned away down the room.

“I’m sorry,” he said.

Margot did not move. Everything that had once seemed to set her free
from him, Zoff’s tirade, the doctor’s query, Felix’s bland assumption,
disappeared as if none of them had existed, and she felt again as she
had done in her cabin coming home across the Atlantic, when every mile
meant only a mile nearer to him.

“I love you, Denis.”

“I know.” He swung around to her furiously. “I saw, just now.”

“And you don’t love me, I suppose?”

“No.”

She was not angry, not even hurt. The word glanced off her like a shaft
of straw. She stood straight, unutterably happy, her lips parted, her
eyes shining with laughter.

“That’s—not true.”

He came close to her, holding her again, looking down at her covetously,
smiling a little, his square chin drawn down.

“Just now you saw too, I suppose.”

She nodded and he kissed her again. He was shaking a little and she
could feel their hearts beating.

“But it won’t do,” he said with sudden weariness. “It won’t do, Margot.
There’s too much against it. You’re all tied up to Victor, for one
thing, aren’t you?”

“No. Not now. Not since yesterday.”

He looked at her sharply and she could see the question in his eyes and
feel him trying not to ask it. Her generosity was boundless. Her love
was so great it engulfed all the small reluctances. She answered the
query before he put it.

“I think it must have been because of you, Denis. I wasn’t admitting it
at the time. Did you come here because of me?”

“No!” he said so violently that she knew he was lying. “No, certainly
not. I don’t want to love you, Margot.”

“But you do, Denis?”

He found her hands and bent his head over them.

“Oh, darling,” he said, “ever since I saw you . . . and so hopelessly,
do you know.”

Voices in the hall outside cut in on them brutally. He stepped back but
did not release her hands.

“We’ve got to talk,” he murmured urgently. “When? They say you’re going
to London early.”

“I’ll be home in the afternoon,” she whispered back. “You’ll be here?”

A door slammed and the curtains shuddered. She released herself from him
gently and felt an absurd but poignant sense of loss as her hands were
freed.

“Yes.” His eyes were still on her face, still helplessly vulnerable, but
there was a shadow in them. “Yes, I’ll be here.”

Sir Kit opened the door.

“The clock is on the wall, if you’ll come in,” he was saying to someone
behind him. “I do most earnestly hope you’ll be able to do something.
Come along, come along. Good heavens, what a draught! Is that you,
Victor? Come in, my boy, for goodness’ sake, and shut those doors behind
you.”

As the two on the hearthrug turned slowly round, Victor Soubise stepped
in through the french doors and began to close and fasten them. He
glanced over his shoulder at Margot as he shot the upper bolt, his face
impassive.

“I came in this way after putting up the car,” he said briefly. “It’s
nearer.” His voice was flat and unrevealing. There was no telling if the
observation was an apology, a reproach, or simply a statement of fact.


                                  FIVE

Hercule Bonnet, manager of the Beaux Arts company, brought Margot down
after the lunch in the chauffeur-driven hired Daimler he always used
when in London. He was in the top of his form and there had been no
getting away from him. At the end of the party he had pushed his
eye-glass into one of the deep sockets—they always looked painted they
were so dark—and had given her a flash of white teeth as he announced
his intention of coming down to pay his respects to the “_chère
maîtresse_.”

On the way down he had talked all the time, his plump hands dipping and
swooping like sea gulls over the dome of his grey waistcoat as he told
her what he was going to say to Zoff.

He was overdressed, as was usual in England, since, so he said, he
believed the natives expected it of a Frenchman.

“I have the exquisite courtesy,” he would explain half seriously. “That
is why I am beloved wherever I go.”

Margot was his discovery of the moment. She was his little pigeon, his
cabbage, his queen. He was about, he insisted, to fling himself at
Zoff’s feet to thank her for bequeathing her genius on such a pupil. He
was a trifle drunk, of course, but only to the point of elation. Margot
had nothing to do but to look as if she were listening, and so far, for
the best part of the journey, she had not missed a cue.

She was so happy she almost told him the reason, but he gave her no
opportunity to make that mistake. His theme was the future and his voice
never ceased.

As the car nosed its way through the endless little townships which had
become the suburbs of the city, she lay back in the cushions, one ear on
his chatter and all the rest of her conscious self obsessed with
delight. It was madness to be in love like this, she reflected, her eyes
dancing; in love as if one were sixteen, as if no one else mattered, as
if every one of these dazzling successes which Bonnet was so cheerfully
prophesying was well lost for an hour with Denis. It was lunacy, of
course, delirious nonsense, proverbially ephemeral, and yet it was so
very sweet.

And behind the ecstasy was something real and inescapable and forever.
She was sure of it. It had made a little blanket over her heart. She
could still hear Denis’s voice behind the florid periods which Bonnet
was intoning at her side.

“The English drowned the French.” The deep voice sounded through the
thin one: “. . . _ever since I saw you . . . and so hopelessly_ . . .”

The words shocked her still. Even in memory they disturbed her
breathing. They were precious and wholly ridiculous, for nothing was
hopeless now. Bonnet’s chatter cut into her daydreaming as the car
turned into the familiar road and she sat up.

“‘_Cherè doyenne des arts supréme_,’ I shall whisper,” he was rehearsing
happily. “‘_Maîtresse de milles cœurs_. . .’ Eh, we arrive, do we? Is
this the house?”

Margot spoke to the chauffeur, who turned into the drive and brought the
big car to a standstill before the porch.

“Permit me.” Bonnet was in gallant mood. All vehicles presented certain
embarrassments to his plumpness, but he was determined to hand her out
himself, so there was some delay as he was first extricated and set
panting on the step.

Margot let him assist her and they were standing together in the
conservatory when the front door was thrown open.

Felix stood before them, gibbering. He was only just recognisable. There
was no colour in his face at all and his eyes were blank. He stared at
Bonnet and turned wildly to Margot.

“That is not _monsieur le docteur_,” he said stupidly, “Mademoiselle,
where is the doctor?”

Her pulse missed a stroke and a chill crept over her.

“What is it, Felix?” She heard her own voice speaking very quietly.
“Quickly, what is it? Is Zoff ill?”

“Mademoiselle, she is dead.” He was dragging her into the hall with the
feeble, plucking hands of a frightened old man.

“Oh no, _no_,” she said, as if somehow the word could make it true. At
her side she was just aware of Bonnet’s scandalised face wearing a
ludicrous expression of disappointment. “Where is Sir Kit?”

“Mademoiselle, he has not been here since before _déjeuner_.” Felix was
shaking visibly and appeared to be about to collapse. “There is no one
here but me and Gen’vieve. It was Gen’vieve who first found Madame and
she who telephoned _monsieur le docteur_. I am waiting for him, but it
is of no use. Madame is dead. I have seen her.”

“Where is Denis?”

“Mademoiselle, Monsieur Denis is gone.”

Unless she dreamed it, the words were shouted.

“It was after he left Madame’s room that we found her suffocated. There
was a pad over her face and her hands were folded. It was then, after
Monsieur Denis had gone out of this door with Madame’s case in his
hands, that we found her.”

“With Madame’s case?” she echoed blankly.

“But yes, Margot.” He had given up civilities, and the use of her name
reminded her that he had known her from babyhood. “Her green case, the
bag. The leather case with the drawer underneath.”

She stared at him, her brows drawn down into a line.

“Where the jewels were?”

“Where the jewels were.”

In the bewildered silence a step sounded on the stone behind them and
she swung round to confront the young doctor. He was breathless and his
eyes were furious.

“So you let it happen,” he said bitterly, peering contemptuously into
her face. “You were warned and it was under your nose, and yet you let
it happen.”

Margot remained staring at him. Her cheeks were transparently white and
her eyes looked enormous under the pale feather fringe of her Lelong
model. She felt as if a page were turning back in the course of her
life. It was as though a digression had ended suddenly, hurling her once
more into the main story.

“But I told you,” the doctor was saying. “I gave you the most explicit
instructions. I said the patient was not to be allowed to see that man.”
He bent over her as she spoke. With bright patches of colour on his
cheekbones, he looked like an infuriated archangel.

She continued to meet his gaze helplessly. She was vividly aware of
negligence but of absurdity also.

“You’re making a dreadful mistake,” she said. “Denis can’t have had
anything to _do_ with it. Of course he didn’t. You don’t understand.”

He drew back from her.

“This is hardly the moment for discussion, don’t you think, or do you?”
The pomposity displayed his antagonism like a weapon and he brushed past
her and strode on to the foot of the stairs. With one hand on the
banister, he turned and looked back. “Have the police been sent for
yet?” he asked Felix.

“No, _monsieur le docteur_. Gen’vieve telephoned for you, that was all.”

“I see. Will you come up, please?” He stood aside for the old man and
mounted the stairs behind him. Margot watched them go.

It was some moments before she remembered Bonnet. A cough at her side
startled her and she turned to find him looking at her, a mixture of
chagrin and honest alarm on his plump face. He had no need to explain.
She understood immediately and went to his rescue.

“Go back,” she said. “After all, you’ve hardly been in the house. I
shall simply say a friend brought me to the door.”

He was grateful but still very embarrassed.

“_Chérie_, I wish I could stay. What a tragedy! What a disaster! She had
quarrelled with someone, _n’est-ce pas_?”

“No,” she said quickly. “No, it’s a mistake of the doctor’s.”

“I see. I think, though, he intends to call in the _flics_, that one.”

“He does, doesn’t he?” she agreed absently, her mind not so much on that
alarming possibility as on the awful fact of Zoff’s passing. “You get
away, Hercule. There is no reason for you to be mixed up in this, none
in the world.”

“Perhaps it would be as well.” He was loth to relinquish his role of
gallant, but prudence advised him strongly. No one understood more about
the benefits and the dangers of publicity.

Seeing him standing there hesitating focused somehow the whole situation
for Margot. She was aware of every detail. The ornate hall, transversed
with huge modern patterns in sunlight from the open door into the
conservatory, was vivid for an instant. She knew what the scene must be
like upstairs too, where the old servants and the doctor must be
standing round the bed.

Bonnet took her hand and held it tightly. Behind the mass of
affectations and shrewdnesses which made up most of the man, there
appeared for an instant a fleeting warm reality.

“Ring me up if there’s anything I can do,” he said, his sincerity
underlining the danger.

“I shall hold you to that, Hercule,” she said.

He nodded. “You may, my dear. But now I shall go.” He raised her hand
briefly to his lips and trotted out to the car. She heard the door slam
a moment later and then the whirr of the starter. For a second she
hesitated, and then, laying her bag and gloves on a side table, went
quietly up the stairs.

Zoff lay stiffly on her golden bed. The peach-coloured coverlet was
drawn up to her waist and a blue brocaded dressing jacket was wrapped
softly about her breast and shoulders. Her hands were folded. Her face
was calm, and, as it had never been in life, oddly gentle apart from a
certain accentuation of her big features, the nose knife-sharp and the
cheekbones prominent. It was difficult not to think her asleep.

She was not quite smiling but her wide mouth was soft and secretive.

At the end of the bed Margot stood with Genevieve and marvelled at her
dignity. Death had shown none of its derisive cruelty here. There was no
pathos, no absurdity; only majesty and peace and resignation. It was
even difficult to think of weeping. This was something to admire.

The extraordinariness of the fact did not strike the girl. She was
stunned by the shock of her loss and stood quiet, her arm round
Genevieve’s shoulders, holding her hard brown hand.

From the bed, the stones in the dead woman’s rings winked and trembled,
startlingly live against the quiet flesh.

The doctor was moving about at the other end of the room. He and Felix
had thrown open the windows and the curtains were swinging out in the
stiff breeze, filling the room with movement. At the moment the two men
were at the armoire and were bending down before the empty shelf where
Zoff had kept her battered green dressing case. She had always insisted
on having it there regardless of any valuables it contained, and relying
on the “secret” drawer, a device which would not have deceived a
squirrel, let alone a child.

Felix was whispering, explaining the details to the younger man. Margot
and Genevieve were only just aware of them. They stood close together,
quite still, looking at the bed. As with most great personalities, Zoff
had seemed immortal to her intimates, and since in death her personality
had vanished only a stranger had been left behind. The phenomenon had
stupefied them. They could not credit it, could not believe the one,
irrevocable fact, Zoff was gone. They both felt that at any moment she
must sit up and laugh at their terror, flinging back her head to show
the gold-crowned tooth at the back of her mouth as she delighted in the
outrageous joke.

It was Genevieve who broke the spell.

“She was just so when I found her,” she whispered. “Like this, as if she
was in a play. I took the towel off her face and saw her. God forgive
me, I couldn’t touch her after that. I put it back.”

“But it’s so incredible.” The doctor’s voice, loud, young and impatient,
startled them. He had been waiting for Genevieve to recover herself and
now seized on the first sign. “I don’t understand it,” he said, coming
round in front of them. “Do you mean to tell me you smelled nothing at
all? Why, even now the room reeks of it. The towel must have been
saturated.”

Margot trembled. She had been vaguely aware of something odd in the
house ever since she reached the stairhead, and now at last it took a
definite shape in her mind. Once one faced it, it was inescapable.
Everywhere, clinging to the draperies, eddying in the draught, fighting
and conquering the hundred perfumes with which Zoff’s belongings were
always drenched, was the sweet, horrible stench of the operating
theatre.

“Ether,” she said huskily.

The doctor raised his eyes to hers. “No. Just old-fashioned chloroform,
I think. Can’t you smell it, Gen’vieve?”

“No. I smell nothing.”

“Gen’vieve has no sense of smell,” put in Felix, who had joined the
group. “Not for many years now.”

The doctor caught his breath and glanced again at Margot.

“Is that true?”

“I don’t know. I suppose so. We used to tease her and say so. Zoff—Zoff
said so.”

“But, good heavens, don’t you see what this means?” In his excitement
his pomposity dropped from him like a false moustache, she reflected
bitterly. He was thrilled to find himself a detective. “Don’t you see,
it must have happened before? This must be the explanation of the other
two attacks. I didn’t notice it then because each time Gen’vieve had her
propped up by an open window and the place aired, as far as it can be
with all this scent about, before I arrived. On this occasion the fellow
used so much of the stuff that he succeeded in killing her very quickly
and I got here before the fumes were dispersed.”

Margot turned on him. “Oh, you can’t say things like that,” she said
breathlessly. “You can’t make wild accusations. You’ve got no possible
way of knowing if it’s true.”

“My good girl”—the hostility swept back into his eyes—“it’s rather
obvious, isn’t it? Zoff told us herself that he had made two attempts to
kill her, and like fools we didn’t believe her. Now he has succeeded.
He’s probably a lunatic,” he went on gravely. “He may have tried to be
subtle to begin with, but in the end he became so reckless he drenched
her with the stuff. Who else could have done it? Chloroform doesn’t lie
about in ordinary houses. Yet it would be the simplest thing in the
world for him to get hold of, and would have been very difficult to
trace after a short period.”

He silenced Genevieve, who was about to speak, and went smoothly on,
still speaking to Margot.

“You don’t want the scandal, of course (I don’t blame you), nor do I.
But neither of us can help it. This is murder. He even took some
jewellery, I understand.”

The girl did not speak. She was battling with an extraordinary
conviction that something inevitable was taking place. It was not that
she believed the story for an instant, but she realized that it was an
explanation which must occur to most people, and somewhere she had the
impression that it had all had to happen like this.

The doctor left her and returned to Felix, who was busy at a small wall
safe at the far end of the room. He had opened it and was examining the
plush and leather cases within.

“We must get on to the police at once.” The doctor still spoke with that
suppressed excitement which jarred upon them all. “They’ll pick him up
on an air station, I expect. Work out a rough inventory of the things
that are missing, Felix. They’ll need that.”

Margot glanced at the bed again and came to a sudden decision. It had
occurred to her that probably she was the only living person in the
household who knew where Denis lived. The police would find him through
the hospital, but it was quite possible that neither Genevieve nor Felix
would remember even that in their present state. At any rate, it would
take a little time to find him. Even she did not know the address, but
he had once pointed out the house he shared with a dozen other students
and she thought she could find it again. If she went at once, the
probability was that she would catch him first. One thing, at least, was
obvious. He must come back at once to clear himself before any more of
this crazy circumstantial evidence piled up against him. She had no idea
why he had left the house or where he had gone, but if there was a
chance of finding him, she felt it worth taking.

She glanced at the doctor. He was still absorbed in Felix’s discovery.
Genevieve had crept up to the bed head again, a silk shawl in her hands.
For the moment Margot was unnoticed. Without looking back, she walked
quietly out of the room.

Her grey-clad figure passed down the stairs as silently as a ghost. Her
feet made no sound on the tiles of the hall and the street door closed
gently behind her.

Bridgewyck central police station was a yellow brick building at the end
of the main street, next door to the Regal Cinema and opposite the
subway to the electric railway. By one of those pieces of pure chance
which figure so often in official police reports, as if Fate herself
were on the side of the authorities, Inspector Lee was standing looking
idly out of his window on the first floor when his telephone bell rang.
He could reach the instrument from where he stood and was still on his
feet, his glance fixed absently on the opposite pavement, when the
sergeant downstairs put through the call from Clough House.

While the doctor was still talking, his voice brittle with an
affectation of curt authority, Inspector Lee’s long-sighted eyes
alighted on Margot Robert. She was hurrying down the pavement, her
slender body thrown forward by her high heels, her hands grasping her
big grey bag. As he watched her she turned into the dark mouth of the
subway and disappeared. Lee recognised her and remembered the one thing
about her which had interested him. She was the girl who had made the
old woman change her mind about charging her grandson. He prided himself
on his hunches and he swung round, holding the phone to his breast.

“Carpenter,” he said, “quickly! A girl’s just gone to the tube station.
Grey costume, grey feathered hat, pretty, West End actress type, fair,
five foot two, about twenty years old. After her. Follow all the way.
Ring me back. You may just do it.”

A shadow in the back of the room slid out from behind a desk, reached
for the hat which lay upon it, and passed out of the door obediently.
While the telephone still crackled at him the inspector noted his man
cross the road and enter the station. He glanced at the clock over the
door. Two and a half minutes. The trains ran every eight. The odds were
on Carpenter making it, he decided.

He returned to the telephone. “All right. Thank you, Doctor. I’ll be
with you in six or seven minutes. Keep every thing as it is, of course.
Let no one in or out. What? Oh, clear case, is it? Well, that saves us a
lot of trouble, doesn’t it? But we can’t be too careful. Just see that
all doors are kept locked. Is Miss Robert there? What? She’s down
stairs, is she? She’s—what? Oh. I see, very upset. Very well, sir.
Thank you. Good-bye.”


                                  SIX

Dower Street looked as if it had been drawn in blue chalks when Margot
turned into it. She hurried, unaware of the quiet man in the crumpled
suit who trudged behind her, keeping pace easily with her shorter steps.
The deep blue of the northern twilight spread everywhere. Even the grey
houses and the gleaming, tire-polished roads had taken on the steely
colour of the sky. Street lamps were as yet little lemon patches in the
amethyst. They stretched on into the distance like a necklace of yellow
beads.

Detective Officer Carpenter saw the phone box and noted it as he had
noted every other they had passed since they left the Underground and he
had all but lost the girl in the crowds. She was looking up at the
houses now. This was more promising. She was not seeking a number,
though, but was peering at each façade as if she hoped to recognize it.
Once she hesitated and he was puzzled. But no, she had changed her mind
and was off again, himself at a safe distance behind her.

Ah, now she had found it. He could see the relief in the sag of her
shoulders as she turned to climb up the three worn steps to the door. He
paused to light a cigarette and kept his eyes on her.

Margot stood hesitating on the stone platform. The door stood wide open
and she was confronted by the misty cavern of what had once been a fine
vestibule. There was only one bell push, a single button in a tarnished
saucer of brass. She pressed it doubtfully and far away in the basement
a bell rang hollowly, but there was no other result whatever. She was
about to try again when there was a patter of footsteps in front of her
at the far end of the passage as someone raced down a stairway toward
her. She stepped back to save herself.

“I say, I’m sorry.” The voice was very young and she found herself
looking into an inquisitive face under untidy hair. He was barely twenty
and ostentatiously dishevelled. “D’you really want to come in here?” he
enquired with the laborious roguishness of his age. “Are you sure?”

“Well, I want to see Mr. Cotton, if I may.”

“Oh.” He was deflated. “Oh well, I’ll see to that for you. You stand
here while I get the light on.” His voice ran on pleasantly as he moved,
and presently a grimy light bulb leapt into life and she saw a well-worn
strip of lino between drab walls leading to a staircase beyond. “Please
come in here.”

Her guide had become more formal now that he could see her.

“This is the only reception room in the house, I’m afraid. We use it to
interview guardians and taxgatherers. Don’t let it lean on you. It’s our
landlord’s décor, not ours.”

He held a door open for her and chattered on without permitting her to
speak.

“I’ll get Cotton,” he said. “Sit down, if the chairs aren’t too dusty.
Shan’t be a moment.”

He raced off like a puppy and she heard him shouting for Denis from the
foot of the staircase. Margot stood waiting, her hand on the mahogany
table which filled most of the ill-lit room. The rest of the furnishings
were lost on her. She was listening, her head down. Not once did it
occur to her that he might not be here. She waited confidently for his
step and the sound of his voice. Ever since the first shock of the
tragedy she had been living in a half-world in which only very simple
things were ordinary and in which the great events surrounding her swept
her along with them without help. Now for a second all the dreadful
lunacy of the situation confronted her intelligence. It was as though
she had been climbing a precipice and had suddenly looked down. She
grasped the full danger, the full significance, of everything she had
learnt since leaving Bonnet’s Daimler. All the nerves in her face
tingled as if a cold wind had touched her.

Just then, outside in the street, Detective Officer Carpenter decided
that the time had arrived when it was safe to telephone. Meanwhile, in
the passage, the obliging student shouted again. This time he was
rewarded. A door opened on one of the upper floors and light footsteps
echoed on the linoleum-covered stairs. There were a few muttered words
and then the door swung in on her. She turned to meet him.

She had no idea of the unexpected picture she made, her elegance shaming
the dingy room but her face white and strained under the frivolous hat.
She put out her hands to him.

“Thank God you’re here,” she said incoherently. “Quickly, Denis, we’ve
got to hurry.”

The final word faded on her lips. He did not take her hands but turned
to close the door behind him before standing back against it. He was as
pale as she was. His ugly chin was thrust out and his eyes were darker
than she had ever seen them. Their expression was quite new to her.

“I didn’t expect you,” he said with appalling distinctness. “I’m sorry
you came.”

For a little while she said nothing, but stood quiet, catching her
emotions together and holding them like streamers in the wind.

“You’ll have to come back,” she said at last, as soon as she was sure of
her voice. “The sooner the better.”

“I’m afraid that’s quite impossible.”

The light, straggling out from under the solid old-fashioned shade over
the table, caught on the bunched muscles on the corners of his jaw. But
for that, his tone might have sounded impersonal.

“But the police—” she began and was cut short by his laugh.

“Darling,” he said, “need we have the melodrama?”

She almost laughed herself with the relief. She had not known before how
real her unadmitted fear had been.

“You don’t know?” she said, unable to prevent her voice from rising a
little. “Of course, you don’t know. Zoff is dead, Denis.”

She saw his eyes widen and then the veils of reserve crept over them,
blotting out all expression.

“Dead?” he echoed softly, and she felt him become very wary. After a
long pause he said quietly: “No, I didn’t know.”

He was looking at the wall behind her head and there was a new stolidity
about him. In the midst of her bewilderment it came into her mind that
he was by no means inexperienced where suspicion was concerned. There
had been the _Citation à l’ordre de l’armée_, his “mention in
dispatches”. She remembered the extract. “_Twice questioned by the
Gestapo but disclosed nothing of value to the enemy._” He must have
looked then much as he did now. The unfairness and incongruity of the
comparison edged under her control.

“Don’t you see that you’ve got to come at once?” she demanded, catching
his sleeve. “I left just as the doctor was sending for the police. She
didn’t—die ordinarily, Denis. I came to find you before they did.”

He stood looking down at her. His hands were in his pockets and she felt
the unyielding iron of his arm under the sleeve in her fingers.

“She was very much alive when I left her,” he said. “I’m sorry she’s
dead. She infuriated me, but I liked her. She was a great character.”

The past tense hit the girl.

“I loved her,” she said, and, without realising what was happening,
began to cry. The tears flooded into her eyes and spilled over down her
cheeks.

“Don’t do that, for God’s sake.”

“No. No, I won’t,” she said ridiculously and felt blindly in her bag for
a handkerchief. He pulled one out of his breast pocket and flicked it
over to her.

“Now look here,” he began as she struggled with herself, “do I
understand that because of all the nonsense Zoff has been talking I am
liable to be arrested? Is that what you’re trying to tell me?”

“Yes.”

“Very well. What am I expected to do in this benighted country? Walk up
to the first bobby on the beat and give myself up?”

“No, of course not. You’re expected to—well, to be in the house, to
answer questions. To behave, in fact, as if you—”

“Were innocent. Is that what you’re trying to say? Do you suspect me?”

“If I did,” she said, “should I be here? Oh, Denis, what’s the matter
with you?”

The sudden direct appeal crept under his guard. His face twisted
helplessly and he blundered toward her.

At that most unlucky of all moments Detective Officer Carpenter softly
opened the door. He had an insignificant face, with bloodless lips and
wet-looking eyes, and it appeared round the doorway as they sprang
apart. After the first quick glance round he came in almost confidently,
shutting the door behind him.

“Mr. Denis Cotton?” he enquired in a much stronger voice than one might
have expected to come out of such a shadow of a man.

Denis nodded and turned to the girl.

“Mademoiselle Margot Robert.”

“Ro-bert,” she corrected him absently. Her eyes, frightened and
comprehending, did not leave his face.

“Thank you,” he said. “You’ll have to excuse me, I’m afraid. I’m a
detective officer of the Bridgewyck borough constabulary.”

“Can I see your warrant?” Denis spoke too quickly. The pale eyebrows
rose high and disapproving.

“I have no warrant. I’m not arresting anybody, sir.” Save for the
strong, harsh voice, he might have been a reproachful upper servant.
“You can see my card, of course, if you want to. We’ve always got to be
ready to show that when we’re in plain clothes.” He produced his
credentials and Denis examined them.

“Well, what do you want?” he said briefly, handing them back.

Carpenter hesitated. His eyes were momentarily shifty, and the fantastic
notion that he might be physically afraid of them was forced upon them
both. There was a chaplet of sweat beads on his forehead.

“I have to ask you both to stay here,” he said. “The inspector is on his
way, and when he arrives you’ll be asked to make statements in
connection with a death which took place at Clough House, Hertford
Street, Bridgewyck, this afternoon. You’ll understand that I’m not
cautioning you, but I must remind you that it will be my duty to make a
note of anything you say to one another in front of me.”

He reeled off the official warning and shut his pale mouth tightly.

Denis looked at Margot. Most of his life had been spent in France, and
this unexpected introduction to a new police procedure, with all its
apparently meaningless formality, was bewildering.

“What’s to prevent us walking out?” he enquired.

The plain-clothes man’s shining eyes flickered at him.

“Nothing, sir, except that every police constable in the land would be
looking for you in twenty minutes. Men on beats round here a good deal
sooner,” he said and passed his tongue over dry lips. “I should stay
where you are, sir. It’s only a question of making a statement. Perhaps
you’d sit down, and the lady too. I’ll keep standing just here if you
don’t mind.”

He settled himself with his back against the door and they took chairs
in silence. The dreary light from under the red shade made heavy shadows
on their young faces. Margot kept quiet as long as she could, but at
last words escaped her.

“Of course we’re willing to make statements,” she said, her clear voice
pretty with its faint trace of accent. “Naturally we both want to help
all we can. Mr. Cotton knew nothing about it until I told—”

“I shouldn’t, miss—I beg your pardon, mademoiselle.” The strident voice
was not unkind. “Just wait for the inspector. He won’t be long.”

“But I have nothing to hide.”

“I don’t suppose you have, miss, but I rather expect he’ll want to speak
to you separately, if I make myself clear.”

He did, of course. The unnatural quiet continued for a long time.

At last, when they were all three stiff from holding the same position,
Denis stirred.

“We can smoke, I suppose?” he remarked.

The plain-clothes man jerked his head up.

“I can’t stop you, sir, but I’d rather you didn’t. Unless you’ll have
one of mine?” He offered a battered packet, and Margot watched Denis
take one and accept a light. The veils were down over his eyes again and
his mouth was expressionless.

The slam of a car door just outside in the street made her jump. The
sound of heavy feet, first on the steps and then in the corridor,
decided Carpenter. He opened the door with relief.

Lee came in with a sergeant behind him, and between them they filled the
doorway with beef and authority. The inspector’s square face was
unsmiling, but there was distinct satisfaction in his expression as he
took in the group. He was a worshipper of efficiency and today he
appeared to have surpassed himself.

To Margot he came as a shock. She had not expected to find the same man
in charge, and his few words to her in the corridor at Clough House
returned to her as vividly as if a record had been played back to her:
“You’re the young lady who made Madame Zoffany change her mind, are
you?” So he was prepared. The full story was already clear in his mind.
Now, after finding her and Denis together like this, what on earth could
he help thinking? She put her hand up to her mouth to smother the
startled sound which she felt must come from it. No danger had ever been
quite so vivid to her before. It was like the teetering moment of the
car crash, just before the impact.

Inspector Lee cleared his throat. He was prepared to be courteous
because he was making no arrest until he had the man safely in his own
office and his own chief constable’s sanction and approval. After the
formal name-taking he issued the invitation which the law prescribes.

“I must ask you both to accompany me to Bridgewyck police station, where
you will each be asked to make a statement. You know why, I think.”

They nodded and he grunted his approval. It was growing very cold in the
room despite the overcrowding. The night air poured in from the open
street door, bringing with it exhaust fumes and the purr of a running
engine.

Denis caught Margot’s eye and signalled to her to move, but he did not
touch her hand or pick up her bag for her.

“Just one other thing before we go, Mr. Cotton.” Lee’s attempts to sound
casual were more successful than his subordinate’s. “When you left
Clough House, Bridgewyck, this afternoon, you are reported as having
carried a green leather bag. Is that correct?”

Margot caught her breath. All through the journey to town, and now while
they had been waiting in silence, she had been trying to put that bag
out of her mind.

There was a long pause, a little too long. Denis was hesitating. His
face was white and his mouth almost ugly. At last he pulled a wallet out
of his coat and took something from it. As they watched him he laid a
slip of pink paper on the table. Lee took it up and looked at it. His
heavy eyebrows rose.

“Charing Cross Station parcels office,” he said softly. “Any
explanation, Mr. Cotton?”

“Yes.” Denis still sounded too cautious. “Madame Zoffany put the bag in
my hands just as I was leaving this afternoon at about a quarter past
two. I didn’t discover everything it contained until I was in a railway
carriage coming to London. Because—because of what I found in it, I
thought it would be safer in a parcels office than in my room here. It
was too late to go to a bank and you can see for yourself that this
house is not very private. The street door is left open most of the
day.”

It was not a very convincing story. Even to Margot it sounded lame.

“I understand.” Lee’s satisfaction was becoming grim. “You are saying
that this is the receipt for the green bag. Well, we’ll go and fetch it,
if you don’t mind. Meanwhile, if you’ve no objection, I should like to
send someone over your room here. Is this your only address?”

“In London, yes.” Denis put a key on the table, and at a sign from Lee,
Carpenter picked it up.

“Which door?” It was significant that he had dropped the “sir.”

“Second floor, first on the left.”

Carpenter went off upstairs and the inspector turned back to the two of
them.

“If you’re ready, we’ll go,” he said briefly.

It was not quite an arrest, yet Denis travelled down to Bridgewyck on
the back seat of a police car, with a plain-clothes man on either side
of him. Opposite, with his back to the driver, sat Lee, and next to him,
overshadowed by his huge bulk, was Margot.

Outside Charing Cross the man next to the driver slipped out, to return
in a minute or two with Zoff’s shabby green jewel case. He handed it in
to the inspector, who balanced it lovingly upon his knees for the rest
of the journey. There was no talking.


                                 SEVEN

The waiting room at Bridgewyck police station was unpleasantly like a
cell. A solid wooden seat ran round three sides of a small
high-ceilinged chamber devoid of any sort of decoration. Not even a
“Wanted” notice broke the monotony of the shabby green distemper.

Seated with his back to the fourth wall, a uniformed police sergeant
worked at a small deal table, his bald head gleaming in the light from a
naked bulb not far above it. He was writing steadily. In the last hour
he had not once looked up.

Margot sat directly opposite him. She was still very pale, but her back
was straight and there was a courageous gayety in the tilt of her
feathered hat. The room might have been underground. No sound from the
outside world penetrated the silence. It was now two hours by her watch
since Denis had been taken upstairs to Lee’s office, and during that
time she had been quite alone.

In the beginning she had tried to review the situation coldly, arranging
the facts as she knew them and attempting to piece together from them
that other explanation which she prayed must be there. So far it had not
emerged. The longer she considered, the more wretchedly simple the story
remained. Zoff’s old green jewel case was inescapable. Wherever she
looked for help, there it was, inexplicable or damning.

As the minutes dragged on she gave up reasoning and let the dull misery
of waiting engulf her. She dared not think about Zoff. That loss was too
violent, too staggering, to be comprehended just yet.

The summons came at last. The bell on the table tinkled and the sergeant
laid down his pen.

“Inspector Lee will see you now, miss. Will you follow me, please?”

The deceptive courtesy of policemen no longer bewildered her. She rose
stiffly and they went out into a disinfectant-reeking corridor. She had
decided upon her own part in the coming interview. The straight truth
and the whole of it was the only possible line. It was not going to be
easy. She realised that she would have to explain about herself and
Denis, and that was a relationship so new that it was still very fragile
and very precious. But after all, it was the vital factor in her own
behaviour after Zoff’s death, and to hide it would be to create mystery
where there was none. She was dreading Lee on the subject. He was not
the type to display much old-world delicacy, and she went in to meet him
expecting the worst.

He was alone in a big airy room, seated behind his desk looking solid
and forbidding, but he rose as she appeared and came toward her.

“Ah yes,” he said with an unexpected lack of briskness, “Mademoiselle
Robert. Sit down, won’t you? My stenographer’s gone down to the main
office for a moment, but he won’t be long. Have a cigarette?”

It was almost as if he had hoped not to see her at all. She looked at
him blankly.

“No, no, thank you,” she said. “You want me to make a statement?”

“If you will, as soon as my chap comes back to take it down. Just a
short account of the facts as you know them. Nothing elaborate.”

His attitude was surprising. He was making her feel as if she were
wasting his time.

“I haven’t much to tell.”

“No. I don’t suppose you have.” He settled himself at the desk again and
regarded her gloomily. “What time did you get back from your luncheon in
London this afternoon?”

“I don’t know exactly. Let me see, we lunched early—the French do, you
know—oh, about three, I suppose.”

“Three-five,” he agreed, glancing at a sheet of paper on the desk. “The
doctor arrived soon after, did he?”

“At the same time. We met on the step.”

He nodded again, his eyes still on his notes.

“And then you decided to rush off again to town to tell Mr. Cotton all
about it, is that right?” he said.

“Yes,” she said and waited.

To her amazement, he seemed prepared to leave the matter there. He sat
looking at her woodenly, as if no further remark occurred to him, and
after a while his glance wandered to the door but no stenographer
appeared.

“Have you arrested Denis?” The words were out of her mouth before she
could stop them. His glance returned to her, the sheet of paper poised
delicately in his thick fingers. For the first time he permitted a
flicker of interest to appear in his round eyes.

“That’s a funny thing for you to say, Mademoiselle Robert. Why do _you_
say that?”

She found the slight emphasis which he laid on the word disconcerting.

“Is it true?”

He was frowning. “Did you expect it?” Suddenly he succeeded and she was
exasperated.

“Well, the doctor was accusing him openly, which was why I went to fetch
him. And then you rushed up after us and brought us back here in a car
bristling with police, so I took it for granted you were going to make
some such mistake,” she said with asperity.

Something like revelation passed over the man’s unexpectedly expressive
face.

“I see,” he said. “I see. You went to fetch him because you thought the
doctor was accusing him. Not because you thought _he might be running
away from you_.”

Margot did not move. She heard the words and did not credit them. Lee,
watching her closely, saw no reaction.

“No,” she said and laughed a little. “That did not enter my mind.”

He leant over the desk.

“Perhaps I’ve been making a mistake,” he said with deceptive humility.
“It’s always rather difficult to get the picture, you know. I’ve not
seen much of the personalities in this case yet, except, of course, Mr.
Cotton’s.” He paused long enough to let the inference become clear and
then went on, still with the same quiet affability.

“Let me see, you’ve only seen Mr. Cotton on three occasions since your
childhood. And on the third, last night, in fact, you suddenly admitted
a violent infatuation for him. That’s so, isn’t it?”

There was a moment of complete silence. Margot felt the blood rushing
into her face as the savage stab at her vanity made its wound, but
something horribly intelligent in the bright blue eyes warned her and
she caught a glimpse of his purpose. She made an effort.

“I am a Frenchwoman, Inspector,” she said. “We are supposed to be very
temperamental. Sometimes, perhaps, our infatuations do not last very
long or go very deep.”

Lee was disappointed. He almost showed it. His methods, which were well
known and not altogether approved by his colleagues, were simple. In
moments of deadlock it was his custom to stir up emotional trouble in
every direction which presented itself, and then to wait for something
to break. He was seldom entirely unsuccessful, but this time the results
were not promising. Grudgingly he retraced his steps.

“You say you followed Cotton because the doctor accused him. What was
the fact which made you think that accusation so dangerous?”

“His not being there,” she said simply. “I thought he should at least be
present to defend himself, for all our sakes.”

Lee could have smacked her for her poise. He did the next best thing.

“Oh, I see, you were thinking of the scandal,” he said easily. “You
weren’t worrying about the crime. You weren’t thinking of this helpless
old woman, who seems to have treated you like a daughter all your life.”

It was too crude. He saw it himself and regretted it. Her expression did
not alter. She sat there looking like a china ornament but revealing
considerably more brain and stamina than most women possessed in his
experience.

“I was not sure that there was a crime,” she said.

“Eh? I don’t get that.” His careful gentleness was disappearing. “You
don’t think it was an accident, do you?”

“No, I suppose it couldn’t have been.”

“Or suicide?”

No, that was the one certainty. She shook her head. Zoff and suicide
were incompatible. She had gloried in life too deeply ever to relinquish
it voluntarily.

“Someone killed her,” Lee said conversationally. “Someone you know.
Someone in the house.”

To his irritation, she did not dispute it. She had had some hours to
think out that point. Strangers do not walk into crowded houses,
chloroform their owners, and walk out again unseen, taking nothing. All
through the long ride back from the city she had been glancing furtively
at half a dozen pressing motives, possessed by half a dozen well-known,
well-loved people.

“Whoever did it,” Lee remarked, “made particularly certain that Denis
Cotton should be the first suspect.”

So he was not sure, and Denis was not yet under arrest. He intercepted
the relieved glance she gave him and made haste to cover the admission.

“Young chaps with that kind of war experience are often insanely
reckless,” he remarked.

“Perhaps they are,” she agreed, “but it wouldn’t make them fools, would
it? I mean, by French law the one thing which can prevent a legal heir
inheriting is his conviction of murdering the deceased.”

Lee sat back. “So you knew that?”

“Not unnaturally. I am French. I wondered if you knew it. It seems
rather important.”

He did not reply to that, but she saw that it was one of the pieces of
information he had gathered. It explained some of his uncertainty.

His next question did succeed in surprising her.

“Would you say Mr. Cotton knew a great deal about jewels?”

“About jewels?”

“Yes. Would he understand their value? Know if they were good or bad?”

She sat frowning at him, looking for some catch in the question, and it
struck him again how remarkably beautiful she was. It set him wondering
how much there was in the story of the sudden love affair between her
and the tough young doctor whom he had liked despite himself. The
youngster had appeared to adore her. He wondered if she was playing with
the fellow after all. He didn’t know.

“Do you mean stage jewellery?” she said. “Or just bad taste?”

Lee came out of his thoughts with a start.

“Madame Zoffany had some stage jewellery, had she?” he said with some
interest.

“She had everything. Some of it was lovely. Some of it was—well, just
stage jewellery.”

He opened a drawer in the desk and drew out a large jewel-studded cross,
which he carried over to her.

“What would you call this?”

She hardly glanced at it. “It’s old French paste. Very nice but not
frightfully valuable. Zoff wore it when she played Tosca. She kept it as
a souvenir. I’ve borrowed it once or twice for costume parts.”

“Thank you.” He put the cross back in the desk. “Would Mr. Cotton know
that?”

Margot raised weary eyes to his face.

“I should think anyone could see they aren’t diamonds, if that’s what
you mean,” she said.

He nodded regretfully. “All right,” he said abruptly. “We’ll just have
the formal statement, and that’ll be all for the time being.”

He touched a buzzer, destroying the fiction that the stenographer’s
absence was accidental. Before the bell was answered the phone trilled
and he pounced upon it.

“Brandt? Lee here. What?” Astonishment spread over his face as he
listened. “Good lord,” he said at last, and then again, “good lord.
Where did you say? In the where? Spell it. Yes, that’s what I thought
you said. All right, I’ll come at once. Quite. I agree. Alters things
quite a bit. Good-bye.”

He hung up slowly. The solid flesh on his forehead was drawn up into
tight folds and the incoming secretary was met with a blank stare before
he relaxed.

“No,” he said to the man. “No, after all I shan’t bother. That’ll do,
Miss Robert. Thank you for your co-operation.”

She rose uncertainly. “Do you mean I can go?”

“As soon as you like. I’d prefer you to stay at Clough House for a
little, though. I’ll take you down with me.”

“And Denis?”

A curious expression passed over the heavy red face.

“I suppose Mr. Cotton had better come too,” he said thoughtfully.

However, in the end she did not go back with him after all. There were
brief apologies without explanations, and he and the superintendent of
the county police went on ahead, taking Denis with them, while she was
left to be driven home in lesser state by a police sergeant.

Altogether the delay was considerable. She did not see Denis and was
grateful. She had taken Lee’s thrust without wincing rather than
parrying it, and the pain came later. While she waited for her driver
she had time to remember, and several points returned to her with
uncomfortable clarity. Principal among them was the fact that the
impetus in her love affair with Denis was her own. Last night, in Zoff’s
drawing room, she had been deliriously happy to discover that she was
loved. Today, in the dingy waiting room in Dower Street, it had been
reaffirmed. And yet it was true that on each occasion there had been
considerable resistance, which she had put down to outside causes. In
her present mood it was very easy for her to underestimate Lee and to be
convinced that he could only have got the ugly word “infatuation” from
someone else. There was only one other person who could have put it into
his mind.

They took her back to Zoff’s house at last. She sat in a very small car
beside a very large sergeant who drove as if he were taking a safety
test. The streets were deserted and it was very cool, with an irritable
wind flickering over the roofs of the neat little houses huddling
together under a bright starlit sky.

At the first glimpse of the familiar gates in the headlights she was
surprised by the crowd before them. It was not very big but it was
characteristic and would grow. Placid, stupid faces on nondescript forms
stood patiently, gaping at the light showing through curtained windows
which revealed nothing. Before them, barring the way, was the gleam of
silver on blue serge.

The drive was crowded with vehicles already, and they edged their way in
behind a small black van whose significance did not occur to the girl.

Her escort, having safely delivered her, seemed loth to depart.

“I’ll take you into the hall,” he said. “That’ll be about right. You
lead the way, miss.”

She got out of the car feeling small and cold. Her legs were trembling.
The lights in the conservatory porch were on and she stepped into it, to
pause in astonishment. An unexpected figure was advancing toward her
across it. The man was unmistakable. His air of respectability, overlaid
with dubious magnificence, seedy black overcoat, shining silk hat, added
up to undertaker’s mute as surely as two and two to four. Yet it was
nighttime and Zoff had only been dead a few hours. By no possible twist
of circumstance could her funeral be taking place now.

He gave her an inquisitive once-over and glanced behind him, where, to
her relief, she caught sight of Sir Kit’s plump back in the entrance. He
was watching something in the hall but swung round as she touched his
arm.

“Oh, Margot!” he said and caught hold of her.

In the last few hours he had grown old. His hands were trembling
violently and the plump pouches of his cheeks had sagged.

“Good God, eh! Good God!” he exploded. “D’you know, Margot, they were
going to send her down into the town in a public mortuary van? I
couldn’t have that, could I? I’ve been moving heaven and earth to get
them to show a little decency. Proper respect, eh? Proper respect for
our dear girl.”

His tired old voice was strained and she had a momentary terror that she
must hear it break. She recognised his mood with dismay. He was beside
himself with grief and shock and was clinging to the conventions as a
man clings to a spar in a torrent. Obviously he saw nothing ludicrous in
the outburst and now waved a hand at the scene before him in a gesture
which was helpless and pathetic.

“Done all I can,” he said. “It isn’t much.”

She followed his eyes to a picture which had all the degrading absurdity
which so often surrounds things genuinely tragic.

At the foot of the staircase, and advancing toward them, was an
embarrassed procession. Two mortuary attendants holding their caps under
their arms, a method clearly both new and inconvenient, carried between
them a regulation stretcher. Upon it, under the regulation blanket, was
something still and horrible. But over the blanket, partially hiding it,
trailed one of Zoff’s own white Chinese shawls, its heavy fringe
threatening to trip the bearers at every step.

On either side of the main group walked two undertaker’s men. All were
uncomfortable and very uncertain of the etiquette of the occasion. One
of them carried the sheaf of roses which Zoff herself had presented to
Margot the evening before. They had been standing in a bowl on a chest
in the landing and now dripped water through the black woollen gloves
clasping them. A trail of it made a bright cascade down the man’s shabby
overcoat.

A plain-clothes detective standing in the drawing-room doorway eyed the
scene with grim irritation but made no effort to interfere. Sir Kit
beckoned the cortege on.

“The police have been very kind,” he said to Margot. “I got on to old
Forsyte, the chief constable. I know him slightly and I think he put in
a word for me. They want a post-mortem, you see. Have to do their duty,
I know that, but I’ve made ’em show a little respect.”

He was blethering, letting it all rush out without any ordered thought,
and Margot felt her eyes filling; not for Zoff, who would assuredly be
laughing at the whole sorry performance, but for him whose loss was so
achingly apparent.

“I made the undertaker send these fellows,” he said. “He didn’t want to.
Seemed to think I was mad. But she couldn’t go out of this house like
a—a parcel, Margot.” His voice trembled again but he controlled it. The
procession was passing them now and he prepared to follow it.

The senior mute, who had been waiting in the hall, came over to him.

“I shouldn’t come, sir,” he said, revealing a kindly cockney voice. “You
go and sit down and leave it to us. You won’t do a mite o’ good. You
stay at ’ome with the young lady.”

“No, Kit, don’t go with them.” Margot had no clear idea of the grisly
programme ahead but she felt most strongly that he should not be there.

“I shall go,” he said with all his old authority. “Don’t try to stop me,
my dear. I shall see the last of her. She’d like that.”

His voice broke utterly and became a whisper.

“You stay here and be a good girl until I come back.”

There was no more to be said after that. The undertaker’s man shook his
head disapprovingly but he made no more protest, and Kit went quietly
out into the dark drive. Margot turned slowly back into the house and
walked toward the staircase.

Her one desire was to throw herself on her bed, and her foot was on the
lowest step when the plain-clothes man reached her.

“Not upstairs, miss, if you please,” he said firmly. “The inspector left
orders that no one at all was to go up. You’re Miss Robert, aren’t you?”

“Yes.”

“I thought so. I’m not sure if you’re wanted. Will you come in here for
a minute?”

He took her into the drawing room, where one of the card tables had been
pulled out into the centre of the room. A constable in uniform sat at
it, an ink pad and paper spread out before him. The room was in
disorder. All the furniture surrounding the broken clock had been pulled
back. Its gilt extravagance brought Zoff to mind so vividly that she
caught her breath.

Her escort was whispering to the man at the table, who looked at her
dubiously over a pair of pince-nez.

“No,” he said in a booming voice of great affability. “No, I don’t think
we need bother you, miss. There were no instructions left about getting
your prints. We’ve took all we need, I think.”

“Fingerprints?” she said in surprise. There was no reason, of course,
why they should not take them, but the idea shocked her.

“Yes, miss, fingerprints.” He appeared to relish the word. “Just them we
wanted. Nothing to worry you with.”

“Then I can go where I like, can I?”

“Anywhere except upstairs.” They spoke in unison and appeared to find
the accident amusing, for they grinned surreptitiously at each other
like boys in church.

Margot was overcome with a hatred of them all. Lee and his hosts were
enemies in the house, silly, excited, overinterested enemies. The colour
came into her face and she turned on her heel and went out. The
constable looked at his colleague and turned his thumbs up approvingly,
but he was a discreet man and made no other comment.

Margot went along to the dining room. The house was unnaturally silent
and yet she was aware of activity going on in its recesses. The
atmosphere was oppressive, as though the very air tingled. Somewhere,
surely, some sort of family council must be taking place? If so, she was
anxious to join it. She saw hopefully that the dining-room lights were
on and the air struck warm as she entered, but the only sounds were not
those of conversation.

The single occupant lay in the winged chair before the remains of a
fire. Victor Soubise was snoring deeply, his flushed face half hidden in
the crook of his arm, his thin legs sprawled out across the rug. She
stared at him in astonishment and had a hand on his shoulder before the
reek of brandy reached her. He grunted and muttered something but did
not wake, and she stepped back, her glance falling on the low table by
his side.

A solid spirit decanter stood empty and stopperless in a puddle on the
polished wood. By its side was a tumbler, in which there was still half
an inch or so of neat spirits. Exasperation spread over her. The
decanter was usually kept three parts full at least, and unless
something extraordinary had occurred Victor must have swallowed the best
part of a pint. Obviously there was no point in trying to wake him. He
would remain in that state for some time.

She left him and went back down the corridor, her heels clicking angrily
on the tiles. She was furious with him. In the ordinary way he was an
abstemious, slightly maidenly sort of person about alcohol who
considered himself something of a connoisseur. An exhibition of this
sort from anyone else would have brought a very sour little smile to his
face.

Margot had known him all her life and had seen him in times of crisis
before, when his behaviour had been fussy rather than unco-operative.
Yet now she was so shaken and so angry with him for putting himself out
of action at the time when he might have been useful that she did not
stop to consider what an extraordinary and untypical thing it was for
him to do.


                                 EIGHT

Margot stood hesitating at the top of the service stairs. At first she
thought the kitchen was deserted, but presently, as homely as a voice,
the clatter of crockery came floating up to her.

Genevieve was at the table in her best black dress. It was far too tight
for her round the hips and had ruckled up at the back, to show some
inches of plaid petticoat, but the tuckers at her throat and wrists were
white and crisp. To save it she had put on her cooking apron, a vast
affair of red-and-white gingham, and, together with her little black
head shawl, her appearance suggested festivity, not to say fancy dress.
Only her face was tragic. She had not been crying; the black eyes were
as clear and bright as ever, but the wrinkles had multiplied and there
was pallor under her brown skin.

The moment she caught sight of Margot she put a finger to her lips and
crept softly over to the door which led out into a small back hall, off
which Felix had a bedroom. She listened against it for a moment before
opening it cautiously. A glance satisfied her and she came back.

“They are everywhere, the _sales types_,” she said, her voice lowered to
a whisper of startling vituperation. “Now what is the matter with you?
You look as if you were in consumption. Sit down, child, and take off
that hat. It is disrespectful at such a time. We’ll have some coffee.”

Her plump hands belied the brusqueness of the words. She pulled out a
chair and sat the girl in it, patting her shoulder as she passed.

“If Madame were here, we should be eating,” she went on. “This is the
moment for a good _jambon_ and a conserve of walnut. If the world were
not demented, we should have both. Madame always said that a full
stomach knows no broken heart. We will prove her right, eh, _petite_
Margot?”

She was frowning tremendously and the girl recognised the symptoms.
Genevieve was both frightened and angry and was taking refuge in
ferocity. Grief was yet to come. Margot found her comforting. This
performance had the virtue of familiarity. Genevieve, at any rate, was
still recognisable.

She bustled about, rattling the glowing copper on the charcoal stove as
if it had offended her, but she was waiting for the question when it
came.

“They’ve found something. What is it?”

The old woman pursed up her lips as if she were about to spit and turned
round, coffeepot in hand.

“Nothing that I could not have told them in the first ten minutes, had
they had the sense to ask,” she said. “We all knew of the little
cupboard in the carving of the bed head. It was not secret. Madame kept
_sal volatile_ there, and later the little pellecules the doctor gave
her for her heart. Yet when Felix remembered it and opened it, the
ridiculous _flic_ left in charge while _monsieur l’inspecteur_ was away
made a performance to astonish one.”

The cupboard in the bed head. Margot remembered it. It was linked with
her childhood. It was Zoff’s pet hiding place, and it had yielded her a
thousand sugared almonds in the days when they were still all in Paris.
Always when Genevieve brought her in at eleven o’clock to receive Zoff’s
morning kiss the little cupboard, cunningly hidden behind a knot of
golden cupids would swing open and out would come the familiar
blue-and-gold carton from De Bry.

“What did they find?”

“Eh?” Genevieve was uneasy. Her glance, curiously direct, rested on the
girl. “_Chérie_,” she said, “they found the diamonds, the emerald
collar, all the pearls, and a bottle.”

“How d’you mean, a bottle? What of?”

“Of chloroform, _petite_. It has been lying about the house these two
years, as I could have told them, as I tried to tell them. But they were
so important and so engaged that they could not spare the time to
listen.”

The room was fragrant with coffee by this time, and she placed a smoking
bowl of it on the white boards before the girl. Margot waved it away.

“I don’t understand this, Gen’vieve,” she said. “Why was it lying about,
as you call it? Why was it ever in the house?”

“My God, for the flies, of course.” The old lady was growing sulky.
“Drink up your good coffee. There is cream from the top of the milk upon
it. Since the war has ended there has been a new spray for the flies,
but in the war, when you were in the north that summer, there was
nothing, and Sir Kit, poor man, was at his wit’s end to know how to
clear the place of them for Madame. She had one of her moods, you
understand.”

She paused and spread out her hands.

“Actually there were few of them, but they worried Madame and she sent
for Sir Kit and complained. He took her advice and one day a man came
and we shut up all the rooms and they were sprayed with chloroform. Some
of it was left in the bottle. It used to stand on a shelf in the little
glass pantry at the top of these back stairs. It was there always. I had
not missed it.”

“But, darling, do you realize what you’re saying?” Margot was sitting up
in the chair, her fair hair tousled, her eyes horrified. “Everyone in
the house must have known of this, Sir Kit too.”

“Certainly Sir Kit.” Genevieve’s little grunt was near laughter. “That
is what the so intelligent _flics_ have discovered. We all knew of the
little cupboard, we all knew of the chloroform.”

“Except me.”

“You knew of the cupboard, _ma mie_, and I am surprised you had not
heard of the chloroform. Certainly Monsieur Victor knew, because he was
discussing the new spray with me only the other day and I told him it
was far better than the old. We were in the pantry at the time.”

“But Denis——”

“No.” The old woman leaned across the table and pushed the coffee toward
her. “No. Monsieur Denis could not have known, either of the cupboard or
of the spray. That is why he is not yet under arrest. They have taken
him upstairs.”

Margot passed her hand wearily over her forehead.

“Oh, Gen’vieve,” she said huskily, “who—who is it?”

“I do not know.” The old voice was unexpectedly vigorous. “Not yet.” She
hesitated and added gently: “_Pauvre femme_, she made people so enraged.
There were times when I, even, I her _bonne_, who loved her, I could
have killed her almost.”

“Whom do they suspect now?”

“Felix,” said Genevieve calmly. “They are not men of imagination.” She
began to cut bread and butter very neatly, setting each piece tastefully
over the other on a plate to make a design.

“Felix?”

“_Oui_, because of the clock. Felix broke the clock. Oh, but I knew that
immediately I saw it last night. But they have been smearing the house
with powder and our fingers with ink, like lunatics, and they discovered
it too in the end. Such a fuss! The clockmaker would not touch it last
night, you know. He took one look at it and said to mend it was
impossible, so the story was clear for them to read.”

Margot remained watching her busy hands in shocked astonishment.

“He was trying to take some sort of revenge, I suppose,” she murmured.

“Naturally.” Genevieve was content. “Felix has been making a fool of
himself for years, worrying over what?—the eleventh share of a baker’s
shop which was never out of debt.”

“How do you know he did it?”

“Because, _petite_”—Genevieve pointed her statement with the bread
knife—“because there was no one else who could have done it. That is
always the answer. Sometimes one refuses to see it, but in the end that
is the explanation. There are no miracles in these matters. The one who
is left is the one who is guilty. You will see, it will arrive that way
in this more terrible affair.”

“I hope so. I don’t think I can bear much more of this, Gen’vieve. Where
is Felix now?”

“In his bedroom, with yet another detective.” She was grimly amused.
“Serve him right to suffer a little. He’s beside himself, the miserable
recreant. He hoped to kill Madame.”

“Gen’vieve! What are you saying?”

“The truth. The truth before the Blessed Virgin and all the saints. He
knew the clock was her mascot and he hoped the shock would give her a
heart attack and she would die. Then he could go and grovel in the flour
sweepings for his contemptible inheritance. He did not know that
Madame’s heart was very nearly as strong as mine.”

She was talking very fast and at the top of her voice.

“That is the sort of murderer we have in the poor Felix. The wishful
one, who dreams, but whose hands tremble so he cuts his own finger with
the dagger. He dared not hurt her and so he broke the clock. When he was
found out he thought they would suspect him of the chloroform also. _Mon
Dieu_, what an animal! I would not look at him when they brought him
through. I hope he suffered.”

“That sounds charitable, Gen’vieve. I hope you’re not talking about me.”

The voice from the doorway surprised them both. Margot’s hand shook so
violently that some of the coffee was spilt on the scrubbed board.
Genevieve reached for a tea towel to mop it before she glanced up. She
spoke amicably if directly.

“Good evening, Monsieur Denis. One can see you have not been listening
at the door or you would know we were not discussing you.”

He remained on the threshold, watching them. He was still white and
tired-looking, but the nervous tension had gone out of his face.

“I smell coffee,” he said. “I’m afraid the sleuths want you, Gen’vieve.
I said I’d find you.”

“Again?” She sounded exasperated, but she passed her tongue across her
narrow lips and her eyes were uneasy. “Very well, I will go up to them.
Margot, the coffee is there, the milk is there, the sugar is rationed.”

She trundled across the kitchen, pausing to flick her head shawl into
position as she passed the spotted mirror on the wall. Denis held the
door for her and they heard her heavy feet shaking the stairs as she
mounted them. He shut the door and came in, while Margot crossed to the
dresser to fetch a third bowl.

“D’you mind one of these?” she enquired. “Or do you want a cup?”

“I’ll have it in anything, please,” he said, seating himself at the
table and resting his elbows heavily upon it. “What’s the matter with
_you_?”

The light reflected from the copper pot made little flecks of orange in
her eyes.

“I’m tired.”

“So am I. But I don’t radiate ice waves. Has that perishing policeman
been sowing evil seeds?”

“No.”

“Good.” He took the bowl from her hands and sipped some of the scalding
stuff. “I rather thought he might. His methods are ingenious but not
quite clever enough, I thought. Strike you that way?”

“I don’t know. I didn’t notice.”

He looked up sharply, his eyes meeting hers.

“Margot,” he said gravely, “I had the hell of a row with Zoff after
_déjeuner_ today. She came down and fetched me out of the dining room,
where I had my meal alone. We had a most violent showdown up in her
room. In fact, we’ve been quarrelling for quite a long time, some
months.”

She put up a hand to stop him, but he ignored it.

“I want you to listen to this, and we haven’t a lot of time. You’ve got
to understand my side of the story. When you were out of the country
Zoff wrote to me at St. Mark’s. I haven’t kept the letter, so I can’t
show it to the police, but you must take my word for it. She asked me to
come down one week end, and when she got me here she dragged out all
that stuff about my mother not being her daughter, all the horrible old
dirty linen which she washed out in the Paris courts when I was in arms.
She wanted me to take a lump sum in cash and repudiate my inheritance.
She offered me a few million francs—about twelve thousand dollars,
something like that. I laughed at her, I’m afraid, and I thought the
matter was finished.”

He was still holding her glance, appealing to her to understand him, but
she dragged her eyes away from him. The story could well be true, but
she did not want to hear any more.

“Then she had another shot,” he went on relentlessly, “and in the end
she made me interested. It was all very secret, between ourselves, you
understand. But she seemed to know how my mind works and she got me
guessing. Finally I said that if she’d prove to me that she was right
I’d step out, as I didn’t want any money that wasn’t mine. Well, she was
always going to produce this proof and she never did. When I approached
her she would put me off and just raise her original offer a thousand
dollars or so. Margot, are you listening to me?”

She nodded without speaking, but she did not look at him. She knew as
well as anybody how infuriating Zoff could be and she was beginning to
be dreadfully afraid. She had never seen Denis in a rage, but she could
believe that it would be formidable. There was a recklessness about him
now which reminded her frighteningly of something Lee had said about
him, and she was afraid to hear what he seemed so determined to tell
her.

“I won’t repeat the tricks she got up to,” he was saying, his voice
harsh with the effort of control. “That setout last night was only one
of them. I told her I was coming to see her, and she said she’d send for
the police and charge me with attempting to murder her. I laughed, and
she did do just that. It startled me because I thought she must be crazy
and I didn’t mean to go up. But as I told you, when Victor and Sir Kit
went out she came down herself in a house gown and told me to come up to
her room as she had something to show me.”

He paused and Margot forced herself to look into his white face.

“The thing she gave me was that old green bag,” he went on deliberately.
“She said the proofs were in it and that I was to take them home and
study them. I opened it in front of her and saw that it was full of
papers. The thing I didn’t do was to look in that drawer affair at the
bottom. I didn’t see that until I was in the train.”

“Then you didn’t know about the jewellery?”

“Of course I didn’t!” he exploded. “And when I did find it I made an
idiotic mistake. I’m no expert, and at first sight the stuff was
impressive. I assumed she was trying to bribe me. Now I feel certain
that the inspector is right, and that since the wretched stuff is not
particularly valuable she had merely forgotten it was there. At the time
I thought the worst and I was pretty angry. I took the documents and
bunged the bag and its contents in a station cloakroom. Now her real and
valuable stuff has been found in her room, in a secret hiding place in
the bed if you please! She was an extraordinary person, Margot.”

The girl did not stir. She was waiting for the rest. He was beginning to
show reluctance. She wanted to hear and yet could hardly bear it.

“Her proofs were nothing but cuttings from the French press at the time
of the case,” he went on bitterly. “I was looking at them when you
arrived in Dower Street. That was why I was so furious I could hardly
speak to you.”

She scarcely heard him. Her attention was still focused in fascinated
apprehension on the main part of his story.

“When was the quarrel?” she asked slowly. “When she gave you the bag?”

“No,” he said briefly. “No, before then.”

There was a long silence while they sat opposite one another, the gay
colours of china and metal on the dressers behind them contrasting with
the pallor of their faces.

“Was it about me?”

“Oh, she had had a shot at you first, I suppose.” He was suspicious and
the colour came flooding back into his face, darkening his eyes and
accentuating the anger there.

“No, it wasn’t that. But I know Zoff. I think I can guess what she
said.”

“I hope you can’t,” he objected grimly. “There was spite in it,
something I can hardly describe. It was as if she felt she was being
revenged on me, and that’s ridiculous, for God knows I’ve never done her
any harm.”

Margot’s imagination painted the scene which must have taken place. She
could hear Zoff accusing him of hunting a second fortune since he was
not sure of the first. She knew from experience that there was nothing,
absolutely nothing, that Zoff would not say, no line that she would feel
bound to draw. Margot could imagine any man’s anger turning to fury
under that vituperative tongue. The questions forcing themselves before
her became terrible. Just exactly how angry had he been? What was he
about to confess to her now?

She glanced at him nervously. God knew he did not look like the murderer
of an old woman. And yet there was recklessness there and deeply wounded
pride. Her faith in him wavered helplessly.

He spoke again, still holding her eyes.

“She also made it clear to me that it would be criminal of me to expect
you to marry me. I had not realised what the career of a great actress
entails, or even that you were one, I’m afraid.”

“I’m not,” she protested. “At least, I don’t think so. Zoff exaggerated.
She was so anxious for her success to continue, you see. She——”

“I’ve got work I must do,” he went on, cutting across her objections as
if he were determined not to hear them. “It’s waiting and it’s just got
to be done. I can’t go wandering round the capitals of Europe in your
entourage. When she put it so brutally, I saw it. That was why I cleared
out when I did. I think it made me a little crazy at the time. I just
took the damned bag and went. I couldn’t face you after——”

He broke off halfway through the sentence, recognising suddenly the pure
terror in her eyes.

“Margot, you don’t believe that I’m telling you . . .” He pushed back
his chair so violently that it fell with a clatter, and he came round
the room to put both hands on her shoulders. “Look here, get this
straight at once. I’m not trying to tell you that I killed Zoff. That’s
what you’re thinking, aren’t you?”

The rattling of the handle of the inner door sounded like a thunderclap.
She thrust him away from her and sprang up just as a pink-faced young
plain-clothes man, whom neither of them had seen before, emerged from
the inner hall. He glanced from one to the other with inquisitive eyes,
and his hands, which stuck out a little too far from the sleeves of his
tightly buttoned coat, were crimson and cold-looking.

“I’ve got the French chap who works here in his room out the back,” he
began awkwardly. “He doesn’t seem too good, and I smelled coffee. I
wonder if a cup might help him. Cheer him up, like.”

Margot did not look at Denis directly but she was wretchedly aware of
the new bitterness in his eyes.

“Yes, of course,” she said to the newcomer, who was still gangling
hopefully in the doorway. “I’ll make some more. You’d like some
yourself, I expect?”

“It wouldn’t come amiss.” The pink face brightened. “I’ve been here
since dinnertime and it’s cold out there. The old chap’s got the
horribles. It makes you feel perished to look at him. I hope I didn’t
interrupt you.” He paused and hunted for a more conciliatory suggestion.
“Talking, or anything.”

“Not at all.” Denis spoke briefly and handed Margot the coffeepot.

“I’m glad of that,” said the youngster, who seemed destined to be a
social failure. “I’ll get the cups. These green ’uns here?”

“No, _mon Dieu_, no! Whatever next?”

Genevieve, entering like a tug from the other door, embraced the
situation in one comprehensive glance, and the fingers of the
plain-clothes man shrivelled away from the porcelain.

“I will attend to it,” she announced. “Mademoiselle, that is not the
canister I am using. You will all sit down, if you please, and leave it
to me.”

She was breathless and more truculent than ever, and as she bore down
upon the stove she glanced spitefully at Denis.

“I am an old woman, and you send me upstairs for nothing, for nothing at
all,” she said accusingly. “All the same, I made good use of my time.
They know now where they get away, these wretched inspectors.”

A slow smile spread over the shining face of the detective.

“She means ‘off,’” he observed happily. “You told ’em where they got
off, did you, Ma? That shook ’em, I daresay.”

Genevieve, kettle in hand, favoured him with a stare which had quelled
greater men. He looked hurt.

“Sorry, I’m sure,” he said.

She ignored him and took down two coarse white cups, while they watched
her in silence.

“There,” she said at last as she filled them and stood back.

“Carry them carefully, young man. I do not wish to clean the floor
tonight.”

“Don’t you worry, ducks.” The youngster grinned at her. “Leave it to
Skinner. Skinner’s a tidy bloke, Skinner is. Learned it in the Army.
Well, thanks one and all.”

His good humour was comforting. Genevieve relented sufficiently to open
the door for him, and they saw his narrow back held stiffly as he edged
across the flags to the bedroom, the cups rattling faintly in his thick
hands.

They were just turning away when the crash came and they heard his cry.
Denis crossed the narrow hall in a stride, with Margot behind him. By
the time Genevieve reached them they were in the room and her explosion
of rage at the broken cups and spilled coffee died abruptly.

In the centre of a sordid room, which was cold and yet stuffy, Denis was
supporting a writhing figure hardly recognisable as Felix. He was
hanging from an old lamp hook in the ceiling, an overturned chair at his
feet. As Genevieve screamed, the detective slashed the length of pajama
cord which had been looped round his neck and Denis carried him, still
kicking, to the bed.


                                  NINE

It was Lee who made the decision to see them all together, to thrash out
the whole thing once and for all. It was his case anyhow, and already
the press were at his heels, liable at any moment to start screaming for
Scotland Yard intervention.

The county superintendent, who was a heavy, white-faced man a few months
off the retiring age, was against the idea, naturally, on grounds of
unorthodoxy, but he had his own private reasons, connected with a wife
in hospital down at Bray, for wanting to see the business over in record
time. Also, of course, it was not entirely his affair. The borough
police were in charge, and if things went badly wrong, so that the story
came out in headlines, Lee would take most of the rap.

The inspector made up his mind in the bedroom where Felix lay. The old
man was more frightened than hurt, save for a swollen tongue and a
bruised larynx. He could talk, and what he said was fairly convincing.
Lee listened to him for a time and then came storming into the kitchen,
where the original trio still waited, to tell them what he wanted.

To Margot he looked like a caricature of a policeman as he loomed in the
doorway issuing orders. He was an out-size man, and in the thick black
overcoat he had never had time to remove since he entered the house he
seemed to fill half the kitchen. His fleshy face was now almost purple
and brute energy radiated from it.

“Upstairs,” he said. “In that bedroom where it happened. By that
merry-go-round of a bed. We’ll go through the whole thing there and
we’ll get it washed up if it takes a week. There’s half a dozen of you
could have done it, and most with good motives as far as I can see, and
I’m going to wring it out of you if it sends us all to the squirrel’s
cage.”

The old super coughed deprecatingly at this point, and Lee’s small eyes
slid sideways at him and back again.

“It’s all very well,” he said. “But if a man tries to kill himself
because he busted a clock which was supposed to be lucky, it makes one
wonder what sort of setup there was round here before the old lady
died.”

At Margot’s side Genevieve stirred. She had been simmering quietly for
some time.

“Felix could not have killed Madame. He was here with me until we heard
Monsieur Denis come downstairs. Then we went out together and saw him
come out with Madame’s case.”

“That’s right,” said Lee, “unless you were both in it. Everybody
upstairs, please.”

He swung round on the unlucky Skinner, who looked like a
before-treatment picture of himself as he wilted in a corner.

“You bring the old man,” he said, “and if he looks groggy, don’t rush
out for coffee.”

They trooped upstairs, all as angry as Lee had hoped to make them.

Zoff’s room looked more vast and more dated than ever before. With the
passing of her personality all the tawdriness of the stage, and the
genuine but outmoded elegance with which she had surrounded herself, lay
stark without glamour. For the first time one saw that the room had
belonged to an old woman. The bed was dismantled. Peach satin and blue
quilted silk trailed on the carpet, while the small cupboard behind the
cupids on the headboard stood open and empty. It looked dusty inside and
as if there might be hairpins lying there.

The inquisition did not start immediately, but Lee did not leave them
alone. The two detectives from the drawing room followed them up and
stood about in an ostentatious attempt to be self-effacing. When
addressed, they pretended somehow to be too polite to answer.

Genevieve waddled down the room and seated herself on one of the more
extraordinary pieces of furniture it contained. This was an old circular
ottoman with a solid pear-shaped cushion in the centre. Zoff had had it
quilted and buttoned in blue satin. The old woman balanced on the rim of
it, looking like a black prune on a blue plate.

Denis followed Margot to the centre window. He had not left her side
since that moment of crisis between them, but even now they were not
allowed to talk. One of the detectives wandered casually to within a few
feet of them and stood staring earnestly at the row of finely bound
French plays which filled a case on the wall near by.

Sir Kit came in next. He appeared in the doorway, looking shrunken but
much less lost than when the girl had seen him last. He came over to her
at once, nodding at Denis as he passed.

“This is a monstrous imposition, but on the whole a wise move, I think,”
he announced unexpectedly. “I met the inspector as I came in just now. I
don’t like the feller’s manner, but he’s sincere, I think, and
determined to do his job. Not bad traits at a time like this.”

Margot eyed him curiously. He was more normal than usual. The moment of
despair was over, evidently, and he had a grip on himself even if for
the time being he was inclined to overplay the part. She asked no
questions lest she should overbalance him again, but after a pause he
bent close to her.

“They wouldn’t let me go in,” he whispered. “Very kindly fellers, you
know. Meant well. But remarkably firm. Perhaps it was as well. I saw her
to the door.”

The old-fashioned phrase struck his own ears as unhappy, and his lips
quirked bitterly.

“Now who are we waiting for?” he demanded. “Victor? Felix?”

The door, opened at that moment, silenced him. Lee appeared, followed by
the superintendent, and after them Victor Soubise. He was steady on his
feet but grey round the gills, and his hair was recently wet. He did not
look at anybody, but sank down in a gilt armchair not far inside the
room and remained looking at his fingertips, his paper-fine lids, which
were so like Zoff’s own, drawn down over his eyes.

Margot watched him for a moment or two and was turning back when she
caught Sir Kit’s expression. It surprised her. It was a curious look to
find in those kindly eyes, speculative, cold and apprehensive.

Her attention was diverted by the two last arrivals. Skinner came in,
supporting the tottering Felix. The old man was ghastly. His bones were
wrapped in a dirty plaid dressing gown, and a woollen scarf emphasised
rather than hid the wads of cotton wool which surrounded his grey face
like a ruff. All the same he was still very much alive. He had been cut
down within a couple of seconds of his kicking away the chair and,
though badly shocked, was recovering rapidly. Sir Kit made little
teetering sounds of disapproval.

“Damnable to submit a man in that condition to an ordeal like this,” he
murmured. “You’re a doctor, Denis. What do you say?”

The younger man gave the forlorn exhibit a long glance from under his
lashes.

“I’ve seen men in worse shape submitted to more,” he whispered drily. “I
think he’ll do. It won’t kill him. Soubise looks in a mess.”

“Ah,” said Sir Kit. He spoke aloud, forgetting where they were, and had
to cough to cover it.

As if the sound were a signal, Lee, who had been sitting in the chair at
the end of the bed, glanced up from a page of notes in his hand and rose
to his feet. He stood looking round at them for some time, his eyes
gleaming with a knowingness which was intentionally offensive.

“There’s been a murder done,” he said. The statement was meant to be
shocking and succeeded, although there was no news in it.

Sir Kit grew slowly crimson and Genevieve’s intake of breath was audible
in the silence.

“Somebody did it,” said Lee. “We don’t want to forget that, do we?”

He let that sink in and went on, still speaking as if they were younger
or more stupid than himself, but all the time the light in his eyes and
the way they flickered from one face to another proclaimed the fact that
he did not really believe they were any of them obtuse or negligible.
Margot found him terrible. There was no humanity in him. He was not
thinking of himself. He was simply a machine for finding out.

“The dead woman was a stranger to me,” he said. “You’re all strangers to
me and the superintendent, and perhaps for that reason we see things a
bit plainer than some of you do. Now I’m going to tell you some of the
details we know, and I think you’ll be able to fill in the gaps for us.
You’re listening, aren’t you?”

Of course they were listening. Kit was on the verge of saying so
forcibly, but he too was beginning to see something of Lee’s methods and
forced himself to keep his temper and silence.

“The first thing that happened, as far as I’m concerned, was yesterday,”
Lee went on. “The deceased applied for police protection against her
grandson Denis Cotton. A few hours later she withdrew the charge. That
was after she had had an interview with her ward, Margot Robert.”

He paused, and looked at Margot and Denis until everyone in the room had
noted that they were standing side by side.

“The second thing that happened was this afternoon at three-forty. The
deceased’s doctor telephoned the station to tell me that he had been
summoned by Genevieve Lestrade and Felix Monet, servants of the
deceased, and had come to the house to discover Margot Robert on the
doorstep with a friend of hers called Hercule Bonnet. Some seconds later
he found his patient dead in bed, poisoned by chloroform inhaled. There
was no trace of a bottle or container which might have held this liquid
in the room so far as he could ascertain.”

He coughed and consulted his notes.

“The doctor stated that in his opinion the woman had been dead for
something less than one hour. This opinion was subsequently confirmed by
the police surgeon. For clarity’s sake we will place the time of death
at approximately two-thirty.”

He glanced at the superintendent for confirmation, and the older man
nodded, although his expression remained uneasy. Lee continued, blithely
confident.

“The doctor also said that the two servants had deposed that they went
up to their mistress immediately after they had seen Denis Cotton
descend the staircase and go out of the house carrying her jewel case. I
asked him if Margot Robert was still in the house and he gave me to
understand that she was.”

Again he let the point sink in.

“After taking certain steps, I came to this house and made certain
investigations, and later, on receiving information from one of my
subordinates, I went to 125 Dower Street, London W.C.1., where I found
Denis Cotton and Margot Robert together, she having slipped out
unbeknownst to anyone in this house. Denis Cotton admitted possession of
the jewel case and it was subsequently recovered. I then brought both
these persons to the Bridgewyck police station.”

He managed to convey police omnipotence very neatly and sailed on,
rolling out the damning story without apparent enmity.

“While they were still at the station I received a telephone call from
Sergeant Brandt, to tell me that Felix Monet, who had been assisting the
police to estimate what valuables might have been taken from the house,
had remembered a small cupboard built into the headboard of the
deceased’s bed. You will see it directly behind me.”

His manner, if irritating, was also compelling. Obediently everyone
looked toward the hiding place. Denis’s glance alone fumbled for a
second before it lighted upon the dusty little cavern. His eyebrows rose
slightly as he discovered it, but he looked away at once, and Lee, who
was watching him, smiled. There was no telling if he were congratulating
himself on the working out of a theory, or Denis on trying to be subtle.

“That cupboard,” Lee continued, “contained a twelve-ounce bottle in
which a dram of chloroform remained, and also all the more valuable
pieces of jewellery which Madame Zoffany possessed, some of it, I am
told, worth many thousands of pounds. It was discovered in the presence
of the sergeant by Felix Monet.”

Sir Kit touched Margot’s arm. He looked completely bewildered. Before he
could speak, however, Lee, whose eyes seemed to be everywhere, pounced
on him.

“I am about to explain, Sir Christopher,” he put in quickly, “that the
green case which Denis Cotton took to London has now been found to
contain a great many ornaments of what I shall call secondary value,
ornaments of a kind used on the stage. They were secreted in this false
bottom of the case, and there is some question as to whether or not they
were put there by mistake and the bag used to carry something else.
Denis Cotton has made a statement to the effect that he did not know
they were there when he carried the bag from the house. Now, there are
two other people concerned in this enquiry: Sir Christopher Perrins and
Victor Soubise.”

Kit nodded, but Victor did not raise his eyes.

“On their two statements, each taken separately, of course”—Lee still
sounded very pleased with himself—“they left the house together about
eleven forty-five in the morning and went down into the town, where it
is certain that they had lunch together at the Conservative Club. They
left at approximately one forty-five and walked back toward the house,
still in company.”

His voice ceased and there was silence in the room, during which Margot
was suddenly acutely aware of Zoff’s personality. It was as vivid as if
she had entered the room and was standing there just behind the
inspector. The girl shook off the horrible fantasy. The startling
recollection of the indomitable woman remained in her mind. This was
Drama: Zoff would have liked this.

“They did not enter the front door,” Lee was saying, “but came in at the
garden gate, as Sir Christopher wished to look at the small greenhouse
at the end of the lawn. He went in, he says, and remained there for a
considerable period inspecting the plants and also examining the heating
arrangements, which have fallen into disrepair. Soubise left him and
came into the house by the side door. On his own deposition he went into
the dining room, poured himself a drink, and then went up to his room,
where he collected some documents which he wished to show Sir
Christopher. It took him some minutes to find these, and he came out of
the house by the way he had entered it at approximately two twenty-five,
having encountered no one. He and Sir Christopher then went for a short
walk together to visit a jobbing clockmaker in Tite Street. We have
interviewed this man and he corroborates their statement. They returned
here at three forty-five to find Madame Zoffany dead and the police in
possession.”

Sir Kit bent his head. “That is quite right,” he said. “Agree, Victor?”

Soubise looked up with an effort. “Yes,” he said dully.

“So between two and twenty-five past, as far as we can be certain,” said
Lee, “these two men were alone. Soubise admits he was in the house. Sir
Christopher says he was in the garden. Neither of them admits seeing
anyone else during that vital time.”

“I saw no one, sir,” said Kit stolidly.

“And you did not move from the greenhouse?”

“No.”

“Very well.” Lee appeared satisfied.

The tension in the room had become painful. Genevieve’s black eyes moved
to Margot’s and held them.

“You see?” The words were not spoken, but the girl caught them as
clearly as if they had been shouted. “You see? It will be as I said. A
time comes when there is no one else. There are no miracles in these
affairs.”

Lee gave them no breathing space.

“So far,” he pressed on, “I have not mentioned the motive. After all, no
one commits an act like that, soaks a pad and forces it over the face of
a poor old woman who so little expects it that she puts up no fight at
all. No one does that unless he has a reason, you know. However, there
are motives in this family. Most of you know all about them.”

For the first time he appeared to hesitate, or rather to wait for
something which did not come.

“I think we all know that Sir Christopher here had a motive for wanting
his old friend out of the way and no more expense to him. Some might
think it a very good motive,” he announced loudly, while the
superintendent winced.

But Kit did not explode. He shook his head gently. He said nothing, but
the silent negation was very impressive. It was pitying, almost
regretful.

Lee did not press it. His small eyes travelled to Felix, who huddled
further down in his chair.

“Felix Monet had sufficient motive,” said Lee, “or at least he evidently
thought he had. He was so incensed against his employer that he smashed
one of her most precious possessions and left his fingerprints all over
it. Afterwards, when he remembered he had handled the chloroform bottle
on discovering it, he jumped to the conclusion that the police, who were
either mentally defective or dishonest, would link the crimes and
convict him. He was so sure of this that he tried, not very hard, to
hang himself.”

“Monsieur—” Felix had struggled to his feet.

Lee waved him down, and the watchful Skinner completed the operation by
jerking him back into his chair, where he subsided, his eyes bulging.

“Then there’s Denis Cotton,” said Lee. “Well, we’ve heard plenty about
his motives and we won’t go over them again. But he had them, all right,
and so had Miss Robert, even if she was carefully out of the way during
the actual moment of the attack.”

He was speaking quietly and casually, but this time there was genuine
speculation in his expression. The other two he had dismissed without
real consideration, but now he was eager, and under the thin film of
conversationalism the brisk voice had an edge.

“When my man surprised them in Dower Street they were in each other’s
arms,” he said.

The protest came unexpectedly from Genevieve.

“If I could believe that, I could believe anything,” she said
spitefully. “Mademoiselle is affianced to Monsieur Victor.”

Lee relaxed. He had had a long time to wait, but the ice was breaking
now.

“I was told that,” he said easily. “That provides more sources of
strain, doesn’t it? Makes us think, all of us officials.”

With a gesture he made them aware of the audience of policemen, whose
faces remained blank apart from the irrepressible curiosity and
excitement in their eyes.

“That gives Victor Soubise two motives,” said Lee. “One against Madame
Zoffany, one against Denis Cotton. But perhaps the particular
difficulties experienced by Mr. Soubise are not so well known as they
might be. It’s true, isn’t it, Mr. Soubise, that you lost your Brazilian
fortune last year, and that you needed either Madame Zoffany’s help or
your inheritance from her estate? I haven’t all the details yet, but the
reports which have come to hand make it obvious to me that you had to
get a very large sum of money very soon if you were going to save
anything at all from the South American wreck. You were going to tackle
Madame Zoffany about it this week end, weren’t you? At any rate, that’s
what you told Messrs. Ribbon and Slater of London Wall yesterday.”

Sir Kit made a curious little noise in his throat, and Margot turned to
find him looking helplessly at Victor, now slowly straightening himself
in his chair.

“I don’t _know_, Sir Christopher,” Lee said pointedly, “but I suggest
Soubise told you some of his difficulties over lunch today.”

“In confidence,” said Kit stoutly.

“Of course, in confidence.” The inspector was not exactly mimicking, but
his tone was a smug repetition of Kit’s own. “And then,” he went on with
huge satisfaction, “he left you for twenty minutes to go and have it out
with the old lady. After that he came back and went for a walk with you,
and when you both returned Madame Zoffany was dead and suspicion had
fallen, mysteriously enough, on the man who had pinched his girl. How
does that strike you?”

Kit’s opinion, whatever it might have been, was never given. No one in
the room was prepared for Victor’s reaction. He sat stiffly in his
chair, his eyes prominent, his face grey, and began to scream. No other
description could fit the stream of denials which poured from his thin
lips.

“Liar! Liar! It is not true. You are prevaricating. You are deceiving. I
did not kill her. I did not kill her. Never! Never in my life. I did not
see her. It is not true.”

He was speaking in French and the rolling phrases were shouted at the
top of his voice. The man was wild with terror. Fear started out of
every pore. As an exhibition it was unnerving, and for the first time
the inspector seemed in danger of losing his grip.

“What’s he saying?” he demanded. “What is it, somebody? Quick!”

“_Menteur! Jamais!_” Victor was beginning again when Kit intervened.

“My dear fellow,” he protested, the mild address contrasting vividly
with the impassioned spate, “gently . . . Speak in a tongue the man
understands. Take yourself in hand. Really, Soubise!”

The admonition had its effect. Victor subsided and began to speak more
soberly.

“It is not true. I did not kill her.”

“That was what I imagined you said.” Lee was sardonic. “Anything to
add?”

“Yes.” Victor was sulky now and his lids were drawn down so low that
only two narrow slits of his eyes remained.

“I did mean to tell Zoff about my difficulties, and on Kit’s advice I
did go up to see her, but I didn’t go into the room because Denis was
there.”

“You listened at the door, I suppose?”

“Yes.”

“Exactly.” A contemptuous smile spread over the inspector’s heavy face.
“And then you came quietly away, I suppose, and went back to the garden?
That it?”

“No.” The thin lips made a circle on the word. “No, I went on up the
stairs to my own room on the next floor.”

“How long did you stay there?” Lee was frowning.

“About ten minutes, until I heard Denis come up to his room. I watched
him through the crack of the door. He was carrying the green bag and he
went into his own room to collect his suitcase. I saw him come out with
it and go down again.”

“One minute.” Lee put up his hand and turned to Denis enquiringly. “You
didn’t tell me that.”

“I’d forgotten it.” Denis looked dazed. “It’s true,” he said at last.
“I’d forgotten. I did go up to get my own week-end case. That’s right. I
just looked in and picked it up before——”

“Wait.” Lee turned back to Victor, who, though still trembling, was
calmer and more coherent. “What happened then?”

“I crept out of my room and looked over the banisters, and I watched
Denis go down to the hall.”

“You what!” Lee roared, forgetting himself as his theory tottered.
“You—— Oh, I see.” He was smiling again. “Then you came down and
opened the old lady’s door and found her—”

“No.” Victor could be contemptuous also. “No. I did not go in a second
time either, because I heard her talking to someone.”

The words dropped quietly into a pool of silence. Lee opened his mouth
and closed it again without a sound, and the little echoes which
Victor’s statement made went reverberating gently round the room.

Oddly, it was the old superintendent, who hitherto had been perfectly
quiet, who first took hold of the situation.

“To whom was she speaking, Mr. Soubise?”

“I don’t know.” Victor was hesitating, but his own bewilderment lent the
words conviction. “I don’t know. But it was someone she knew very well.”

“How could you tell that?” Lee was back on the job again, mystified but
intent and on the track like a hound.

“Because she said such an extraordinary thing. I didn’t wait long
because I heard Genevieve and Felix talking in the hall. They’d seen
Denis go out with the bag and were discussing him. I listened to them
for a bit while they chattered, but at last they went to the front door,
presumably to look after him, and I saw my opportunity and slid down the
stairs to the kitchen exit and hurried back to Sir Kit, who was where I
had left him in the greenhouse.”

His voice died away and Genevieve looked at Felix.

“That is so. We did not go up immediately.”

“_Non._ Not for some few minutes. We went to the gate and watched
Monsieur Denis disappear down the road. We were there quite a long time.
I had forgotten.”

“There seems to have been a lot of forgetting,” Lee grumbled, but there
was no suspicion in his voice. The two incidents were typical of the
kind which in his experience were often forgotten by innocent people.
Both were natural, ordinary movements, easily overlooked amid more
sensational happenings.

He returned to Victor with savagery.

“You swear you heard Madame Zoffany talking to somebody she knew well,
after you had seen Denis Cotton leave the house? You stick to that, even
though you must realise that the statement puts you in an even more
questionable position than you are in already?”

For a second it looked as though Victor were about to burst out again
into another fit of hysterical denials, but he controlled himself.

“I am telling the truth,” he said, moistening his dry lips. “I heard her
distinctly.”

“What was she saying?”

Victor hesitated. “It was so extraordinary,” he said at last. “She was
speaking so gently, but with such passion, if you understand. I only
heard it through the door, but it was . . . it was pathetic and so
quiet. She said—I heard her clearly—‘_Tu penseras à moi quelquefois,
n’est-ce pas? Et tu diras “Eh bien, après tout, c’était une bonne fille_
. . .”’ That was all.” His own voice softened on the words and took on a
strange quality of regret.

“Oh my God!” It was Margot. The strangled words escaped her, and at the
same moment Genevieve, her face a crumpled mask, stumbled to her feet.

“_Angelo!_” she said thickly.

Sir Kit raised his head, an expression of horrified recognition in his
eyes.

“La Tisbe!” he whispered. “Victor, didn’t you know?”

“Translate! Translate! Good heavens, what the hell is all this?
Translate, someone can’t you?” Lee was beside himself, but the members
of the household took no notice of him. They were looking at each other
in frightened comprehension, and in the end it was the wretched Skinner,
of all people, who came to the rescue.

“I was in France in the Army, sir,” he mumbled, “and I picked up some of
the lingo. I think what Mr. Soubise quoted means this, sir, roughly.
‘You’—that’s the familiar form of address, sir, only used in the family
or among lovers, like; it’s familiar—‘you will think of me sometime,
won’t you? And you’ll say, “Oh well, after all, she was a good
kid. . .”’ That’s about it, sir, something after that style.”

Lee regarded his subordinate with grudging approval.

“Repeat that,” he commanded.

Skinner obliged, growing even more roseate in the process.

“Is he right?” Lee appealed to Denis, who, with Victor, alone seemed
unenlightened.

“Yes, I think so. A very fair translation. ‘She was a good girl,’
perhaps. But I still don’t see what it conveys.”

“Nor do I.” The inspector made the words sound like an expletive. “Miss
Robert, you cried out when you heard it. What does it mean to you? What
do the words signify?”

She turned helplessly to Sir Kit.

“Oh, not me, Kit,” she said simply. “I can’t bear it.”

“By the lord——” Lee was beginning when the old man took a step
forward. He was obviously very shaken, but his voice was gentle and
steady.

“Those words are a quotation from a play, Inspector. They occur at the
end of the last act of Victor Hugo’s tragedy of _Angelo_. It is not one
of the great pieces, but many years ago Madame Zoffany scored a great
personal success as the heroine and was always very fond of the part.”
He paused to take a deep breath while the whole room watched him in
fascinated silence. “The passage comes,” he went on slowly, “when the
heroine is dying after forcing her lover to kill her. After, in fact,
she has committed suicide——”

“Suicide!” Lee pounced on the word and flung it back at him. “That woman
never committed suicide. You all said yourselves it was the last thing
she would consider.”

“No.” The little word crept out softly, and Margot stood looking at him
directly, her vivid blue eyes wet with tears. “No,” she repeated. “Don’t
you see, Inspector? Don’t you all see what happened? _Zoff didn’t mean
to die._”

Her statement melted into the silence. Lee was frowning, his round brown
eyes peering out under puzzled brows.

“How do you make that?”

The girl swallowed painfully.

“It’s that clause in the law of inheritance, Inspector,” she said
huskily. “If you’ll reread it you’ll see it’s not only the heir who
actually kills who is debarred from inheriting, but also the one who is
convicted of attempting to kill. Zoff knew all about that, and I’m
horribly afraid that she——” Her voice wavered and died, but she took
hold of herself. “She had made two attempts to convince everyone that
the heir she didn’t like had tried to kill her, but no one had taken her
seriously. On this last occasion I’m afraid she meant to make it very
plain.”

The young voice paused and then went on very steadily:

“This afternoon, the third time Zoff tried to convince us, she must have
put too much chloroform on the towel. Gen’vieve was some time going up
there, and when she found her, apparently dead, she replaced the cloth
on her face.”


                                  TEN

It took Inspector Lee some minutes to comprehend and afterward a much
longer time to assemble the proofs and become convinced. But no one of
Zoff’s close associates doubted the truth after that first dazzling
revelation. For them it was as if curtains had parted and swung upward
in rustling festoons, to reveal Zoff’s last tableau, the last scene in
her final act.

From that moment it was she who dominated the drama of her death as
completely as she had dominated all the many tragi-comedies which had
made up her life. Once again she moved among them, as vital and
compelling as ever, and her personality permeated the old house and
coloured all their thoughts.

They were shocked and heartbroken but not mystified any longer. Zoff had
sprung her last sensational surprise.

Lee had the play brought to him and the faded cuttings from the press
book, flowery with praises for her interpretation of the part. The
relevant passages were translated for him not only by Denis but also by
Skinner, whose return to official favour was one of the minor miracles
of the night.

Finally he sent for the Code Civil and read once more the important
passage in the law governing inheritance, whose full significance he had
not grasped that afternoon when the point had come up at the police
station. The evidence was simple and irrefutable. When he had digested
it he called them together again. He was still startled, but no longer
on the chase, and the fire had gone out of him.

“I’ll own I’m staggered,” he said. “What an amazing woman!”

“She was amazing.” Kit made it clear that he considered the description
complimentary. “She was a great artist and a great woman. That was the
explanation, Inspector. Above all, she was always feminine. That
explains her. And,” he added gently, “I think it excuses her. At least
it does to me.”

“Excuses?” Lee conveyed astonishment, but he had lost his anger and his
protest was without violence. “She might have got young Cotton hanged.”

“But she didn’t mean to die.” It was typical of their reaction that it
was Denis himself who put forward the extenuating circumstance. Even in
death Zoff was finding champions among those she had most ill-used.

Kit, who had seen it happen so many times in her life, recognised the
phenomenon.

“No,” he said. “Poor, poor girl, she didn’t mean to die. And she didn’t
trust you with her real diamonds, either, Denis. That was a cruelly
typical little touch. That ought to have told us.” He turned to Lee.
“She planned to be found unconscious, with poor Denis running away with
her diamonds,” he said, “but even so, she couldn’t trust herself to part
with the real ones. That was Zoff all over.”

Lee gaped at him. “It was a deliberately engineered attempt to get
Cotton disgraced, arrested and disinherited,” he said. “I really don’t
see how you can find that forgivable.”

They were silent until Margot sighed.

“You didn’t know her,” she said slowly. “If you’d only known her,
Inspector, you’d have been furious with her but you’d have forgiven her.
She wouldn’t have let it happen quite like that, you see. She’d have
done something else to make it all right.”

Lee grunted. He was beginning to be profoundly relieved that he had not
known the lady, but, glancing at the sorrowing faces around him, he
forbore to say so. Instead, he raised a point which had been fascinating
him.

“Did she always quote from her old plays when she got up to mis—I mean,
whatever she was doing? Even when she was alone?”

“Madame was always acting, monsieur.” Genevieve supplied the answer and
made it clear that she felt she was recording a very fine and natural
trait.

“They do, you know,” put in Victor, speaking from his seat just outside
the circle. “Old actors and actresses always quote all the time. They
dramatise everything and often the words fit. I don’t know why the
explanation didn’t occur to me at the time. If the words had not been so
natural and so like her, I should have understood, but I didn’t
recognise them. She spoke with such sweet gentleness, and so simply,
that I took it for granted she was talking to Kit, as a matter of fact.”
A flicker of embarrassment passed over his narrow face. “I imagined he
had followed me up and gone in to her as Denis came out. When I got down
to the greenhouse again and found him still there I could not possibly
imagine who it was that had been with her. I was so miserable, and so
bewildered, that I didn’t care.”

Nobody spoke and he settled back in his chair again, his long hands
clasped over his knees. His forehead was still wet with sweat beads and
his eyes were heavy.

Presently the police began to leave. In ten minutes they had changed
from being enemies to very ordinary embarrassed officials, anxious to
get home.

The superintendent and the sergeants melted out of the group and Lee
prepared for departure. To Sir Kit his manner verged on the apologetic.

“I made a mistake,” he said simply as they stepped aside for a moment.
“I could see someone was being clever and I didn’t pick on the right
person.” His glance wandered to Victor and rested there a moment. “I
overestimated,” he said. “Well, I must say, for everybody’s sake I’m
glad it turned out as it did.”

“Are you, indeed?” The old man’s quiet amazement was disconcerting.

Lee blinked and took refuge in being obliging.

“There’ll be no need for the p.m. now,” he murmured. “There’ll be time
to cancel it. I’ll be seeing the press too. I promised them a statement
tonight if they’d only leave me alone. They’ll be waiting for me down at
the Lion. You can rely on me to see it’s put to them as decently as
possible. As a matter of actual fact, it’s an accident, I suppose.
There’ll be an inquest, of course, but—well, I shouldn’t worry, sir.”

He was behaving very handsomely and Kit recognised it.

“Very good of you,” he said firmly. “I shall appreciate that,
Inspector.” To emphasise his gratitude he went down to the front door
with him, beckoning first Margot and then Denis to follow. They all four
shook hands on the step, and just before he went Lee hesitated and spoke
to the girl.

“I hope I haven’t upset your affairs, miss,” he said, “but you
can’t—er—make omelettes without breaking eggs, you know.”

As the door closed behind him Kit laughed softly.

“Queer fellow,” he said. “Crude, clumsy, brutal in some ways, but
embarrassingly well-meaning. Thank God he’s gone. Now, if you two will
come in here, there is something I must say to you tonight.” He put his
hands on their shoulders and steered them into the untidy drawing room.
The fire had burnt to a heap of white wood ash, but he took up his
position with his back to it and stood looking at them.

“I don’t know if Margot should hear this,” he began. “I’ve been
wondering, but on the whole I think perhaps she should. Not for your
sake, Denis, but for Zoff’s. You may think,” he went on, choosing his
words with some difficulty, “that I think too much of Zoff. I do. I
always have. She has been abominable. I wasn’t going to admit it before
that fellow, but this last act was wicked and it was unforgivably cruel.
I loved her, I suppose, as much as any man has ever loved a woman, and I
do most freely admit that she was often cruel, but you must let me tell
you something in fairness to her.”

“My dear Kit.” Denis looked younger than his years in his sympathy and
embarrassment. “Don’t,” he said gently. “It doesn’t matter now. It’s
over. Let’s forget——”

“No.” The old man cut him short. “No,” he repeated. “There’s no
forgetting, but there is understanding, and with that sometimes there
comes forgiveness. She hated you, Denis, and I know why.” He paused and
looked at the girl. “Zoff was five years younger than you, Margot, when
she married D’Hiver,” he said. “He was twenty years older than she was,
but she adored him. She was a peasant and an actress, and he was the
head of one of the first families of France. His home was near her own.
She had known him and looked up to him from babyhood. Before they
married he made an extraordinary stipulation. He insisted that she
should adopt and bring up as her own the baby daughter who had just been
born to her own elder sister. This girl had died in childbed, unmarried,
and her disgrace was one of the peasant family’s chief annoyances at the
time. D’Hiver gave no explanations. He was like that. He commanded and
Zoff obeyed. The child was called Elise d’Hiver.”

Denis was staring at him, deep furrows cutting his forehead, his heavy
chin thrust out.

“Then all that dreary old business of the court case was justified,” he
said slowly.

“Hardly justified.” Kit’s lips grew crooked on the word. “That case was
one of Zoff’s unforgivable cruelties. Zoff had given her word to
D’Hiver. She had her portion of his fortune and the man was dead. She
lost her case and quite rightly. But her allegation was true. Elise was
not her own daughter. She was her sister’s. She never admitted that.”

“Oh, but even so . . .” Margot was so sorry for him, so anxious to spare
him “Even so, why should she hate Denis?”

He looked from the one to the other of them unhappily.

“She hated Denis, my dear,” he said, “because when she saw him she saw
D’Hiver. Felix recognised the likeness. I saw it in his face the other
day. I recognised it. To Zoff it must have been a revelation. You are
D’Hiver, Denis, in modern clothes.”

Denis passed his hand over his forehead.

“Then my mother,” he said, “was——”

“Was D’Hiver’s child but not Zoff’s.” Kit sat down. “My dear boy,” he
said, “this is all fifty years ago.”

“Zoff did not know it was his until she saw Denis?”

“Zoff was jealous,” he agreed sadly. “Zoff never grew old. That was her
tragedy. Forgive her, Denis, if you can. And now for God’s sake don’t
try to do anything quixotic about the money,” he said briskly. “Most of
it sprang from D’Hiver anyway. You’re going to finance some sort of
clinic, aren’t you? Then do it. Let my poor girl have done a little bit
of good.”

He got up and went toward the door.

“I’m tired,” he said, pausing to look back at them. “There’ll be a lot
to do tomorrow. Don’t come with me, my dears. I shall be all right.”

Margot remained halfway toward him. His weariness was as vivid to her as
if it had been her own. But there was one question she could not keep
back.

“Kit,” she said, “how did you know?”

He smiled at her. “I knew,” he said, “because she left me for D’Hiver,
long ago, when we were boy and girl. She loved him, not me, you see.
Good night.”

The door closed behind him but she remained looking at it until Denis
went over and drew her down beside him. He put an arm round her and
gathered her close to him.

“You’re an actress too, and you suspected me of being a murderer,” he
said. “But I’m going to marry you. D’you know? If it’s any comfort to
you, there are no stipulations.”

                                THE END

                           TRANSCRIBER NOTES

    Misspelled words and printer errors have been corrected. Where
    multiple spellings occur, majority use has been employed.

    Punctuation has been maintained except where obvious printer
    errors occur.

[The end of _Deadly Duo_ by Margery Allingham]
