* A Distributed Proofreaders Canada eBook *

This eBook is made available at no cost and with very few
restrictions. These restrictions apply only if (1) you make
a change in the eBook (other than alteration for different
display devices), or (2) you are making commercial use of
the eBook. If either of these conditions applies, please
contact a https://www.fadedpage.com administrator before proceeding.
Thousands more FREE eBooks are available at https://www.fadedpage.com.

This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under
copyright in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your
country's copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT
IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.

Title: Hide My Eyes
Date of first publication: 1958
Author: Margery Allingham (1904-1966)
Date first posted: Mar. 26, 2022
Date last updated: Mar. 26, 2022
Faded Page eBook #20220370

This eBook was produced by: Al Haines, Chuck Greif
& the online Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at https://www.pgdpcanada.net




                             HIDE MY EYES


Two gods are blindfold in mythology--Love and Justice. Miss Allingham
shows the strange logic which links the two sightless deities. This
razor-swift story deals movingly with the problem of a woman who hid her
eyes against a sinister but inevitable truth. It begins with murder on a
rainy night in a cul-de-sac off London theatreland. Who were the strange
couple in the country bus, certain witnesses of the crime? Miss
Allingham’s Superintendent Luke, and of course Mr. Campion, find links
between this and other killings, and a trail which leads to a Museum of
oddities and a blood-chilling dump in the East End.

                         _By the same author_


                           BLACKERCHIEF DICK
                       THE WHITE COTTAGE MYSTERY
                       THE CRIME AT BLACK DUDLEY
                           LOOK TO THE LADY
                             MYSTERY MILE
                         POLICE AT THE FUNERAL
                             SWEET DANGER
                           DEATH OF A GHOST
                         FLOWERS FOR THE JUDGE
                       THE CASE OF THE LATE PIG
                          DANCERS IN MOURNING
                        THE FASHION IN SHROUDS
                        MR. CAMPION AND OTHERS
                             BLACK PLUMES
                            TRAITOR’S PURSE
                           CORONER’S PIDGIN
                     MORE WORK FOR THE UNDERTAKER
                        THE TIGER IN THE SMOKE
                          THE BECKONING LADY
                          THE CHINA GOVERNESS
                           THE MIND READERS
                           A CARGO OF EAGLES
                      THE MYSTERIOUS MR. CAMPION
                        (An Allingham Omnibus)
                          MR. CAMPION’S LADY
                     (A Second Allingham Omnibus)
                         MR. CAMPION’S CLOWNS
                     (The Third Allingham Omnibus)
                        THE ALLINGHAM CASEBOOK

                                   *

                            THE OAKEN HEART
                          DANCE OF THE YEARS




                             Hide My Eyes

                           MARGERY ALLINGHAM


                                 1971
                            CHATTO & WINDUS
                                LONDON


                             Published by
                         Chatto and Windus Ltd
                         42 William IV Street
                             London W.C.2.

                          ISBN 0 7011 0504 6

                  © P. & M. Youngman Carter Ltd. 1958


                           _This book is for
                              Maud Hughes
                              With love_




CONTENTS


1. Business After Hours                                               11

2. Big Game                                                           18

3. Garden Green                                                       29

4. Number 7                                                           38

5. The Man Who Wanted to Know the Time                                46

6. Luncheon Party                                                     57

7. Afternoon with Music                                               65

8. Police Theory                                                      78

9. The Visitors                                                       88

10. The Object of the Exercise                                        96

11. Richard to Play                                                  107

12. At the Rose and Crown                                            116

13. Someone at Home                                                  125

14. Hide my Eyes                                                     133

15. Police Machine                                                   145

16. Farewell, My Pretty One                                          156

17. Hard Behind Him                                                  166

18. It Occurred to Mr. Campion                                       175

19. Preparation for an Accident                                      182

20. Betrayal                                                         197

21. Tether’s End                                                     208


     None of the characters in this book is a portrait of a living
     person nor did the incidents here recorded ever take place.




Chapter 1

BUSINESS AFTER HOURS


The arrival of the ’bus was timed to perfection. Nobody of the slightest
importance saw it at all. Traffic was slack, the theatres were only
halfway through the evening performances, and no police were due on
point duty until the after-the-show crush seventy minutes away.

Almost more significant still, if one were seeking a reliable
eye-witness, Commissionaire George Wardle had just stepped down into the
staff room of the ‘Porch’ for his mid-evening pint and sausage and so
was not on duty outside the famous old restaurant which faces the Duke
of Grafton’s Theatre and the dark entrance to Goff’s Place which runs
down beside it.

The spring rain was fortuitous but it was an enormous help. It turned
out to be one of those settled downpours which, in London, seem to
involve more actual water than anywhere else, and there become a
penetrating and absorbing irritant guaranteed to keep the mind of the
passer-by upon himself and his discomforts.

The ’bus came trundling along from the eastern end of the Avenue,
looking archaic but not nearly so noticeable as it might well have done
if there had been no fashion for vintage petrol-driven vehicles in the
West End. It was a small closed single-decker of the type still used in
remote country districts. Shabby, but comfortable looking, its snugness
was enhanced by absurd little woollen curtains trimmed with bobbles and
draped at small discreet windows like those on elderly French airliners.
It was lit from within by a single low-powered bulb and only the
passengers on the front seat were visible from the street. These were in
tune with the vehicle, two cosy figures, plump and elderly, in
decent-out-of-town finery. The man wore a hard hat above his rounded
beard, and his wife--for one could not imagine that he was out with any
other woman--wore beads on her out-of-date bonnet and a rug wrapped
round her stiff shoulders. They were not talking but dozing, as the old
do, and looked warm and protected and out of the wet.

The driver swung the ’bus neatly into the Goff’s Place entry and turned
it into the tiny cobbled space behind the theatre. The Place was a
minute cul-de-sac, an airshaft shared by the Duke of Grafton’s and the
three tall houses whose back doors and fire-escapes gave on to it. These
were shops and face the other way on to Deban Street, Soho, which runs
nearly but not quite parallel with the Avenue.

The original Goff had long been lost in obscurity. His Place now
contained nothing but a telephone booth, a street drain transformed on
this occasion into a whirlpool, and a single rather fancy light bracket
sticking out over the Grafton’s stage door. For the past five hundred
weekdays at this time in the evening the area had been crammed with just
such country coaches, up from the villages with parties to see the
latest domestic musical in the series for which the theatre was noted.
But tonight the building was dark. The piece had finished its run and
spring-cleaning was not due to begin for another twenty-four hours.

The driver parked the country ’bus with remarkable care. It took him
some little time to get his clumsy vehicle exactly into the position he
desired, and even when he had succeeded, the purpose of the manœuvre was
not apparent. True, the bus faced the exit ready to drive out again, but
its rear door, by which all passengers must ascend or alight, was almost
directly above the step of the back entrance of one of the Deban Street
shops, while the near side of the ’bus was hard against the telephone
booth, screening it entirely from the sight of the Avenue.

With this lighted kiosk obscured, the whole area had become appreciably
darker and the driver was only just discernible in the streaming gloom
as he sprang out of his seat, his black oilskins flickering below the
white plastic top of his peaked cap. He was carrying a small leather
attaché case and turned into the booth with it.

In the coach the old people did not move. If indeed they had arrived
late for a performance which was not taking place anyway, the fact did
not appear to worry them. They sat close together in the warm, dozing,
while the rain poured over the tiny window beside them like a brook over
a boulder. The yard itself might have been at the bottom of a fountain,
so drenched and dark and remote it was from the unnatural brightness of
the Avenue where the illuminated signs and the shop windows blazed at
empty pavements and the tarmac glittered like coal.

In the telephone booth the driver settled himself with his back against
the wall, wedged his case on a small shelf under the instrument, and
felt in his pocket. He appeared to know how much money he had, a
crumpled ten-shilling note and eight separate pennies, for he found them
at once and put them on top of the case, but it did not prevent him from
making a complete search. When he was satisfied at last he thrust the
screwed-up note into the other side pocket of his coat and took up the
coins. His peaked cap cast a shadow which was as dark as an eye mask
over the upper part of his face, but the plane of his thin cheek and
strong jaw and neck muscles caught the light. The impression was of a
youngish face, probably handsome, but at the moment frankly horrible.
Either through a trick of the light or because of some unexplained
condition its whole nerve pattern was apparent, dancing and quivering
under the stretched skin. He was also smiling as he stretched out a
gaunt hand for the instrument. The telephone was one of the ordinary
dial and coin-in-the-slot variety, fitted with the A and B button
money-back device, but the driver ignored the printed instructions. He
inserted four of his coins, dialled a number, and then slid down in the
booth so that he could peer up through the rainy dark at the back of the
house directly in front of him. For thirty seconds he listened to the
number ringing out and then, high up in the building, a pale oblong of
yellow light sprang into existence. He pressed the A button immediately
so that as soon as he heard his caller he was able to speak without any
tell-tale click betraying that he was in a public box.

“Hullo, is that you, Lew? You’re still there, are you? Can I come
round?”

The voice, pleasant and schooled as an actor’s, was unexpected, the
undertone of excitement transmuted into confidence.

“Come round? Of course you can come round. You’d better. I’m waiting,
aren’t I?”

The new voice was harsh and possessed a curious muddy quality, but in
its own way it was honest enough.

The man in the peaked cap laughed. “Cheer up,” he said, “your reward is
on the way. You can send John down to get the door open if he’s still
there. I’ll be with you in five minutes.”

“John’s gone home. I’m here alone and I’m waiting for you here till
midnight as I said I would. After that you’ve got to take the
consequences. I told you and I meant it.”

In the booth the man’s bunched jaw muscles hardened but the pleasant
disingenuous voice remained soothing.

“Relax. You’ve got a pleasant shock coming to you. Take this gently or
you’ll have a stroke. I’ve got the money, every farthing of it, and
since you don’t trust me it’s in cash as you requested, all in this
little box in front of me, in fives and ones.” He was silent for a
moment. “Did you hear me?”

“Yes.”

“I wondered. Aren’t you pleased?”

“I’m pleased that we should both be saved a lot of trouble.” There was a
grudging pause and then, as curiosity got the better of him, “The old
gentleman paid up to save you, did he?”

“He did. Not willingly nor without comment exactly. However, pay he did.
You didn’t believe he existed, did you?”

“What I believe don’t matter. You get out here with the money. Where are
you?”

“St. James’s, in the old man’s club. I’ll be seeing you. Goodbye.”

He hung up and slid down in the booth again to watch the lighted window.
After a moment a shadow appeared across it and the blind descended. The
man in the telephone booth sighed and then, straightening himself,
snapped open the catch of the leather case before him. He did not raise
the lid high immediately but first thrust in his hand and drew out a
small squat gun which he passed through the side-slit in his oilskin
into the safety of his jacket within. He then opened the case wide,
revealing that it contained nothing but a dark felt hat of good quality
and a pair of clean pigskin gloves. He exchanged these for his peaked
cap and gauntlets and became at once a different looking person. The
long black oiled coat ceased to be part of a uniform and became an
ordinary protection which any man might wear against the rain, and, with
the removal of the cap, his eyes and forehead came out of their mask of
shadow. He looked thirty or a very few years older and his face still
possessed some of the secrecy of youth. He was good looking in a
conventional way, his features regular and his round eyes set wide
apart. Only the heavy muscles at the corners of his jaw, and the unusual
thickness of his neck, were not in the accepted fashionable picture. The
most outstanding thing about him was an impression of urgency that was
apparent in every line of his body, a strain and a determination like a
climber’s nearing a peak.

As he slid out of the red kiosk into the pit among the tall houses, the
gun in his gloved hand inside his jacket pocket, he was if considered
dispassionately a shocking and dreadful thing, as horrible as any other
deadly creature moving subtly in the dark places of an unsuspecting
world.

He passed round behind the ’bus, empty save for the old people who had
not moved, and came down the narrow lane into the sign-lit brightness of
the Avenue. It was still pouring, the pavements were almost empty,
Wardle was still having his supper, and the Porchester’s
Victorian-Byzantine portico remained unattended. Nothing could have
suited the man better. He had only to step round the deserted frontage
of the closed theatre to gain the comparative darkness of Deban Street
itself, where even now Lew was unlocking a deep-set door.

He came into the light swiftly, his head held down, and glanced briefly
up the street. The next moment he halted abruptly but recovered himself
and, pulling his slicker collar round his chin, he stepped under the
canopy of the theatre. Directly between himself and the entrance to
Deban Street there was a ’bus stop, and beneath it stood an elderly
woman, waiting patiently in the downpour.

She stood quite still, looking square and solid in a green mackintosh
cape which was dark now in patches where the rain had soaked her
shoulders and a crescent above her hips. Her small velour hat glistened
with drops and her stout shoes must have been waterlogged.

For the moment there was no one else on the pavement. If he passed her
he must run the risk of her seeing him and recognising his back, just as
he had hers. He decided against risking it, and turned the other way,
back across the entrance to Goff’s Place and on to Molyneux Street where
he found, as he had hoped, the remains of a taxi rank. There was one cab
left upon it and, keeping his face turned away from the lights of the
Avenue, he spoke to the driver.

“There’s an old girl standing at the ’bus stop just round the corner
here, Guv,” he said pleasantly. “She lives just off the Barrow Road. At
the moment she’s catching pneumonia because she thinks that its a crime
to take a taxi just for herself. Here is ten bob. Will you go and take
her home?”

The driver sat up among the leather swaddling clothes in which he was
enveloped and laughed. He took the crumpled note and started his engine.

“Don’t they make you tired?” he said, referring no doubt to womenkind in
general. “Cruel to themselves half the time, cruel to themselves. Shall
I tell her your name? She’s sure to want to know.”

The man in the oilskin coat hesitated with what appeared to be natural
modesty.

“Oh I don’t think so,” he said at last. “It might embarrass her. Tell
her one of her old pals. I shall keep my eye on you from this corner,
driver.”

“You needn’t.” The bundle spoke without animosity. “I’m honest. No
reason why I shouldn’t be. Goodnight, sir. Stinking, ain’t it? I’ll take
’er along.”

The old cab shuddered and sprang forward and the man on foot stepped
back into the shadow of a doorway. He counted two hundred slowly before
walking out into the rain again. This time the Avenue was safe and the
space under the ’bus stop deserted.

With the gun in his hand he bent his head against the rain, passed
unnoticed down the lighted way, and turned into Deban Street.




Chapter 2

BIG GAME


Just about eight months after the incident which the newspapers had
christened ‘The Goff Place Mystery’ had made a nine days’ wonder in the
Press and the Police had endured a great deal of unconstructive
criticism with their usual gloomy stoicism, Mr. Albert Campion closed
the door of Chief Superintendent Yeo’s room and walked up two flights of
stairs to tap on one which belonged to the newest Superintendent,
Charles Luke.

Mr. Campion was a tall thin man in his early fifties, with fair hair, a
pale face and large spectacles, who had cultivated the gentle art of
unobtrusiveness until even his worst enemies were apt to overlook him
until it was too late. He was known to a great many people but few were
absolutely certain about what it was he actually did with his life. In
his youth he had often been described as ‘the young man come about the
trouble’, and nowadays he was liable to mention deferentially that he
feared he was becoming ‘the old one come _with_ it’, but now, as then,
he was careful never to permit his status to be too accurately defined.

It was certainly true that he had a private practice but also a fact
that he and the present Assistant Commissioner, Crime, Mr. Stanislaus
Oates, had been hunting companions in the days when Oates was an
Inspector C.I.D. Since then Yeo, who was following Oates’s footsteps,
and many other eminent senior men in the service were content to
consider him a friend, an expert witness and, at times, a very valuable
guide into little known territory.

At the moment he was not very happy. Old friendship has a way of making
demands on a man which would be considered unreasonable by the standards
of frank enmity. On arriving at Yeo’s office in response to an urgent
message it had emerged after a considerable display of bush beating
that what ‘the Guv’nor’ really required from his old chum was a promise
that he would ‘drop a hint’ to Charlie Luke.

Mr. Campion, who was very fond of Yeo and even fonder of Charles Luke,
whom they both felt to be the most interesting personality the C.I.D.
had produced in a decade, found the assignment suspect in the extreme.
In the first place Yeo was more than capable of dealing himself with any
sort of problem however delicate, and in the second, Luke was Yeo’s own
protégé and white hope for the future, the son of his old colleague and
an officer over whose career he had watched for twenty years. If Yeo
needed help in hint dropping to Luke Mr. Campion felt the situation must
be out of hand. Moreover, in his experience, getting a word in edgeways
with Luke was a major operation on its own account at the best of times,
let alone at the moment when quite a lot appeared to have been said
already.

He knocked at the green door and was admitted by a clerk who withdrew as
the Superintendent came across the room, hand outstretched.

Mr. Campion thought he had never seen the man in such tremendous form.
Luke was a magnificent specimen who looked a little less than his six
feet because of the weight of his muscles. He had a live, dark face
under black hair which curled tightly to his scalp, nervous energy
radiated from him and his narrow eyes under peaked brows were shrewd and
amused.

“Hello! Just the man I was hoping to see!” he said with disconcerting
enthusiasm. “Come in. I was wondering if I could possibly get hold of
you to ask you to drop a hint to the Old Man for me. He thinks I’m round
the bend.”

Mr. Campion knew Yeo did, on the very best authority. However he saw no
point in mentioning it and Luke gave him little opportunity. His
handshake was a minor ordeal and he got his visitor settled in the
arm-chair before the desk with the alarming purposefulness of one who
perceives a heaven-sent audience.

“I’m on to something pretty hot,” he announced without preamble. “I’m
certain of it but at the moment its just a little bit on the vague
side.”

“That’s a quality which has disadvantages,” murmured Mr. Campion, who
knew what they were rather better than most people. “Authority doesn’t
warm to the indefinite.”

“It’s the new rank, I know that.” Luke spoke bluntly. “A Chief can have
ideas and a mere D.D.I, is permitted to have a hunch. But a Super is
paid to keep his feet on the carpet, his seat on his chair and his head
should be a box marked ‘Members Only’. I know that better than anybody
and in the ordinary way I believe in it. But just now I really have
stumbled on a trail. This is one of my ‘sixth-sense-specials’. I’ve had
them all my life. Look, Campion, since you’re here, take a look at this,
will you?”

He turned to a chart which hung on the wall behind him and Mr. Campion,
who had heard about it already from Yeo, saw that it was a large-scale
street map of a part of the Metropolitan Police District in west London
where Charlie Luke had served as a Detective Divisional Inspector for
several adventurous years. The thin man remembered most of the areas as
a labyrinth of Victorian middle-class stucco which had degenerated with
the wars into alarming slums and was now on the upgrade once more, but
the portion shown here was new to him. It was a circle, some quarter
mile across, in the north of the district and sported a crop of coloured
flags as on a battle map. The centre of the round was an irregular
patch, coloured green to indicate an open space, which lay in the angle
made by the junction of two traffic ways, Edge Street running south to
the Park and the long Barrow Road going west. He leaned forward to read
the large print across the space.

“Garden Green,” he said aloud. “I don’t know it, I’m afraid. I thought
it was Goff’s Place you were worrying about.”

Luke cocked an eye at him.

“Oh, I see,” he said. “You had a word with the Guv on the way up. Did he
tell you that I’d got a delusion that Jack Havoc or the Reddingdale
Butcher had come back to haunt me because I didn’t bring either of them
to trial?”

“No.” Mr. Campion hoped sincerely that he was lying in a good cause. “I
merely gathered you were inclined to link three or four of the unsolved
cases of the last three years and to attribute them to the same unknown
man.”

“Huh,” said Luke. “So I am.” He perched himself on the edge of the desk
and looked, as Campion had so often seen him, like some huge cat, lithe
and intent. “Goff’s Place and the corpse who went by ’bus. Put
everything you’ve ever heard about that business out of your mind and
listen to me.”

It was one of Charlie Luke’s more engaging peculiarities that he
amplified all his stories with a remarkable pantomimic sideshow which he
gave all the time he was talking. He drew diagrams in the air with his
long hands and made portraits of his characters with his own face. Mr.
Campion was not at all surprised therefore when he hunched himself, drew
his lips over his teeth to suggest age and altered the shape of his nose
by clapping his fist over it.

“Poor old Lew,” he said. “A decent, straight little chap with more
patience than sense until the end of it was reached of course, when he
was firm as a moneylender has to be. He had a pawn shop in Deban Street
and when he shut it in the evening he used to nip upstairs to his office
and get out his ledgers on the usury lark. His interest was stiff but
not over the odds and he’d traded there for years without a complaint.”
He paused and fixed his visitor with a baleful eye. “Someone took him
for a ride and made a mess of his office first. There was blood all over
the floor, at least half a dozen vital books were missing and the trail
led down the stairs at the back to a door which opened into Goff’s Place
and no one has seen little Lew since. There was a lot of excitement at
first but since there was no corpse to show, it petered out.”

Mr. Campion nodded. “I remember it,” he said, “It was a very wet night
and nobody noticed that it was curious that a country ’bus should have
been waiting in the yard at a time when there was no performance on at
the Duke of Grafton’s. The police decided the body must have been taken
away in the ’bus.”

“The Police had to decide something,” said Luke bitterly. “We had to
make up our minds if we were going or coming for one thing. But it must
have been done that way otherwise we should have been able to trace the
blessed vehicle. We advertised all over the home counties, every police
force was alerted, we inspected close on seven hundred garages. Old Lew
_must_ have gone in the ’bus, but in that case what was the explanation
of the two old dears who were already sitting in it? That was the item
which shook me. Who were they? What happened to them? Why did they keep
silent and how sound were they sleeping?”

Mr. Campion’s pale eyes grew thoughtful behind his spectacles. It was
very difficult not to be moved by Luke’s forceful imagination which
re-created a picture grown faint in his mind.

“Ah yes,” he said at last. “The old man with the round beard and the old
lady with the beads in her bonnet who were dozing on the front seat.
Some witness described them, I fancy.”

“We had five,” Luke said. “Five people came forward to swear that they’d
glanced into Goff’s Place that night at varying times between nine-forty
and ten-five and had seen the ’bus waiting there. They all remembered
the old folk and hardly seem to have noticed anything else, let alone
the number or the colour of the coach. Even the waiter who passed the
mouth of the yard when the ’bus driver was actually climbing into his
seat didn’t glance at him twice but could paint a picture of the
passengers in oils. He was the chap who swore he’d seen them before.”

“Had he, by George? That must have been useful!” The thin man was
puzzled. “Extraordinary you got no further. Or wasn’t it?” he added as
Luke’s face grew darker.

“I thought so.” The new Superintendent was inclined to be off-hand. “The
chap wasn’t specific. He thought he’d seen them in Edge Street and he
was certain it was through glass. He reckoned they must have been
sitting in a tea shop and he’d seen them through the window as he passed
by.” He hesitated and after a moment’s indecision remarkably unlike him
turned and nodded towards the chart on the wall. “Those three yellow
flags mark the only eating places in the area where he could have done
that.”

Mr. Campion’s brows rose. He had been warned that Luke was catching at
straws.

“Hardly conclusive,” he ventured.

Luke sniffed. “Hardly there at all,” he conceded handsomely. “I warn
you, my evidence gets thinner still as I go on. That’s one reason why
the Old Man is so windy. That blue flag on the corner there marks the
branch of Cuppages the cheap outfitters where this was bought in a
sale.” He leant over the desk, dragged open a drawer and drew out a
thick brown envelope.

Mr. Campion watched him while he took out the glove it contained. It was
cut for a man’s left hand in imitation hogskin and was nearly new.
Luke’s narrow eyes met Mr. Campion’s squarely.

“This is the glove left behind in the Church Row shooting case.”

“_Oh dear!_” Mr. Campion’s protest was so completely spontaneous and
like himself that his friend had the grace to colour.

“All right.” Luke threw the exhibit on the brass tray of a pair of
letter scales which he kept on the desk top and it lay there, limp and
unimpressive, kept in the air by the small column of weights on the
other side. “I’m not trying to prove anything. I only point out that
this glove left behind by the unknown gunman who shot his way out of a
house in Church Row when he discovered that there were more people in
the building than the woman householder, was bought in Cuppages _on that
corner_.”

“My dear fellow, I wouldn’t dream of arguing with you,” Mr. Campion made
it clear that he was not a man who argued at all. “But I would point out
that the Church Row shooting happened quite three years ago.”

“Just about.” Luke spoke cheerfully. “It was about this time, October.
The Goff’s place business was last February.”

“A gap of two years and four months?” Mr. Campion’s expression was very
dubious.

Luke returned to his map. “Well I wondered, don’t you know,” he said
deliberately. “I wondered if it was all gap. See that pink marker
halfway down Fairey Street, just behind Cuppages? That’s a small
jewellers. Belongs to an old boy called Tobias. I’ve known him for
years. Not long ago a young woman who was on holiday from Dorset--she’s
a country school teacher there--passed by his window and went up in the
air. She’d seen this in his cheap tray.” He dived into the drawer again
to return with a small box containing a gold ring decorated with ivy
leaves which he passed to his visitor. “She’d recognised it as belonging
to her auntie and she was excited about finding it because her auntie
and uncle completely vanished two years and three months ago--in the
June following the September of the Church Row shooting.”

Mr. Campion sat looking at the Superintendent with misleading innocence.

“I trust you don’t suggest that the aunt and uncle travelled by ’bus,
Charles?”

“No,” said Luke. “No one knows _how_ they travelled, or even if they
travelled. That’s the interesting part of the story. They were retired
people, comfortably off in their own little house in Yorkshire, and they
sold up and collected all their money and got on a train for London
without a word of explanation to anyone except that the old lady, in
writing to the school teacher to thank her for a white plastic handbag
which she’d sent her for her birthday, had mentioned that they’d met a
very nice young man who had told uncle wonderful things about
Johannesburg, and how suitable the handbag would be if ever they went.
That was all. Auntie never wrote again. When the niece investigated she
and uncle had packed up and gone away without a word.”

He paused and thrust his jaw out with sudden savagery.

“I don’t want to make cases but you would think that once the police got
on to it they could find some trace of these people having taken ’plane
or ship within a reasonable time of them closing their bank account. We
couldn’t. We can’t find a whisper of them anywhere except that auntie’s
ring, which never left her finger, turned up right in the middle of the
area in which I’m interested.”

Mr. Campion looked at the ring. It was not valuable but the design was
unusual and rather beautiful.

“How sure is the niece about this?” he enquired.

“A hundred per cent.” By some alchemy Luke managed to transform his
thin face into a round blank one, solemn eyed and utterly practical.
“Auntie had a terrier pup who used to try to bite it off her finger.
Look at it with this.”

He passed him a jeweller’s glass from the miscellany on the desk and the
thin man made the examination carefully.

“Yes,” he said at last. “What a beastly little tale. What does Tobias
say?”

“So little he must be telling the truth.” Luke sighed gustily. “He can’t
remember when the ring came in. He only put it in the window a couple of
days before the niece spotted it. He was turning out the drawer in which
he keeps the junk he buys over the counter and found it under the bit of
newspaper he’d used as a lining last time he cleaned up. He says it must
have come in with a parcel of second-hand stuff but he can’t recall it.
The odd thing is that the date on the piece of newspaper is just a
couple of weeks after uncle and auntie left home. It proves nothing, but
it’s curious.”

He took the ring and dropping it back in its box placed the package on
top of the glove. Mr. Campion saw where the manœuvre was leading and
decided to be obliging.

“What about the last flag,” he enquired. “The one in the middle of the
green.”

Luke laughed as he caught his eye.

“Well, its a good trick,” he said and, returning to the drawer once
more, produced a large lizard-skin letter-case of very good quality. He
did not pass it over at once but sat turning it inside out and back
again, showing a torn strap on one of the inner pockets. “In April this
year a kid picked this up from the grass in Garden Green,” he said
presently. “After kicking it about for a bit he gave it to a bobby and
it turned out to be just the thing the Kent police were looking for. It
belonged to a car salesman whose body had been found in his coupé at the
bottom of a chalk pit on the Folkestone-London road. Skidmarks on the
surface suggested that he’d been forced off the road by another car, so
no one was very surprised when it was discovered that he’d been carrying
all of seven hundred pounds on him when he set out from the coast. When
he was found he had a pocketful of loose change but no note-case of any
kind although his other papers were intact. His family identified this.
It’s a distinctive wallet and his wife remembered the torn strap.” He
let his mouth widen into a ferocious grin and dropped the leather folder
on to the glove and the ring. Its weight turned the scales and the brass
tray clattered gently as it hit the polished wood of the desk. “There
you are,” he said; “it doesn’t mean much but how good it looks?”

Mr. Campion rose and walked over to the wall to have a closer look at
the chart.

“You haven’t a scrap of evidence of any kind, have you?” he murmured
absently. “You’d be more convincing with a crystal ball. I don’t know
Garden Green. What is it like?”

“Sad,” Luke drooped, impersonating a willow perhaps. “Used to be a
graveyard. The church came down in the blitz and the Council had the
ground levelled and the stones set round the boundary wall. A hoarding
separates it from the Barrow Road and round the back there are the usual
little houses--beautiful porches, horrible plumbing. Mostly they’re let
out in rooms but there are some in private hands still. It’s quiet. Not
a slum. This chap I have in mind doesn’t _live_ there, you know.”

There was something so convinced and familiar in his tone that Mr.
Campion was startled. The Superintendent was speaking of someone as real
to him as the friend before him. Luke saw the expression in the pale
eyes and laughed.

“I’ve got him under my skin good and proper haven’t I? I worry about him
you know. He didn’t make anything out of the Church Row shooting so I
figure he had to catch up on auntie and uncle. He got a few hundred quid
from them but not enough to square the moneylender who must have been
pressing. So he attended to that little problem; but he didn’t actually
touch much cash, if any, in Deban Street and therefore, a couple of
months later, he gave his mind to the car salesman. I don’t know how
long that drop of lolly would last him because I don’t know what his
debts were, you see.”

“This is pure fiction,” said Mr. Campion reproachfully. “It’s
fascinating but it doesn’t touch the ground. Why watch Garden Green if
he doesn’t live there?”

“Because he’s treating it as a hide. He’s not counting it. He thinks
he’s safe there.” Luke’s deep voice had become soft. It was almost a
purr Mr. Campion thought with sudden astonishment, and he was aware of a
small and secret thrill creeping down his spine.

“You can’t tell what he’s got out there,” Luke was saying. “But it’s
something which gives him an entirely false sense of security. It could
be a pub where they know him well but in some different character to his
real one, or it might be a girl friend who doesn’t ask questions--they
do exist they tell me. Anyway he goes there when he wants to leave
himself behind. I may sound as if I’m shooting a line but I know his
state of mind about that place. He thinks he’s almost _invisible_ there
and that things he takes from there or chucks away there couldn’t ever
be traced to him.” He paused and his quick dark eyes met Campion’s own.
“It’s an old idea--sanctuary they call it, don’t they?”

Mr. Campion shivered. He did not know why. He hastened back to concrete
matters.

“What about this new telephone?” he enquired.

The dark man chuckled and nodded towards an instrument which stood away
from the others on a file in the corner.

“That’s it,” he said. “That’s caused the trouble downstairs. You can go
as batty as you like if you do it cheaply, but spend a bit of Government
money on your delusions and authority starts having kittens at once!
That’s my private line to the Barrow Road station. If anything comes in
from the Garden Green beat I shall hear of it quicker than soon. It’s
been waiting, costing all of thirty bob, for a couple of weeks but it’ll
ring in the end. You’ll see!”

The thin man in the horn rims returned to his chair and sat down eyeing
the little pile of exhibits on the scales.

“You make it very convincing, Charles,” he said at last. “Although
there’s no great similarity of method you force me to admit there’s a
strong family likeness in the mental approach. Of course there are no
bodies in the ring story but then there isn’t one in the ’bus business
either.”

Luke thrust his hands in his pockets and began to play softly with the
coins there.

“That idea of Yeo’s about me trying to revive Havoc or the Reddingdale
multi-murderer is absurd,” he said. “This chap isn’t a fraction like
either of them. Havoc had got out of touch with the Peace-time world in
jug and the Reddingdale chap was a bore with a blood-lust like Blue
Beard or Christie, but this man is different. He’s almost refreshing.
He’s got a brain and he’s got nerve and he’s not neurotic. He’s
perfectly sane, he’s merciless as a snake and he’s very careful--doesn’t
like witnesses or corpses left around.”

Mr. Campion studied his finger tips; he was thinking that he had heard
white hunters describing game they were after with the same almost
loving interest.

“You see him as simply out for money, do you?” he enquired presently.

“Oh yes, and not necessarily big money.” As he spoke the Superintendent
took a handful of silver out of his pocket absently, glanced at it and
put it back again. “He’s a crook. He makes a living by taking all he
needs from other people. The really unusual thing about him is that he
kills quite coldly when it’s the safest thing to do.”

He slid off the desk and going round behind it sat down in his chair and
swept the exhibits back into their drawer again.

“He’s the enemy,” he said, catching Campion’s eye with a nicker in his
own which was half shy. “My enemy. Professional _and_ natural, and I
tell you, I’m as certain as if I was reading it on my tombstone, either
I’m going to get him or he’s going to get me.”

Mr. Campion opened his mouth to express a polite hope that he was not
beating an empty covert when behind him, on the top of the green file,
the newly installed telephone began to ring.




Chapter 3

GARDEN GREEN


Early in the day on which Mr. Campion went to visit Superintendent Luke,
Garden Green achieved a beauty which was not normally its outstanding
characteristic.

Sunlight, yellow and crystal in the mist, glowed through the wet black
branches of the plane trees while the fallen cream-coloured leaves made
a fine carpet hiding the bald patches, the cigarette cartons and the
’bus tickets which in the ordinary way disfigured the discouraged grass.

A narrow concrete path ran round the green like a ribbon round a hat. At
the furthest loop was a single wooden seat and upon it sat a girl.

She was not very tall but curved as a kitten, and was clad in an elegant
tweed coat with matching tan shoes and gloves. At her feet was a small
canvas travelling bag.

P.C. Bullard, heavyweight and elderly, who was on duty at the corner,
had strolled down the path twice already to have a look at her, once in
the way of duty and once for pure pleasure. Her sleekly brushed hair was
honey coloured, her grey eyes flecked with gold were widely set, and her
mouth might have been drawn with a copperplate pen, so fine and yet so
bold were its lines.

The man on duty was puzzled by her. He thought he had never seen
anything so out of place. If she was waiting for someone who was very
late she certainly did not mind, for she sat there contentedly in the
cold morning, her fair skin glowing and the sunlight burnishing her
uncovered head. He judged that she was something over seventeen trying
to look twenty, and he was not far out except that it was twenty-four
she was aiming at. Apart from her beauty, which was outstanding, the
other thing which impressed him was her self-possession. The second time
he passed her she caught him eyeing her and wished him a polite good
morning as a matter of course.

She was up from the country, he decided. That was about it.

After forty minutes he began to feel downright anxious about her,
although she showed no sign of being disturbed. If she was wearing a
watch she did not consult it but remained relaxed, graceful, and
apparently utterly content. Her slender feet were thrust out before her
and her hands were folded in her lap.

He might have guessed that it was her destiny that other people should
do the worrying about Miss Annabelle Tassie, for it was with positive
relief that he, a complete stranger, saw at last a young man turn
sharply in from the street and go hurrying towards her.

The newcomer, too, was an unusual type of visitor to the district. He
was a small and dapper youngster with dark red hair and one of those
bright little-boy faces which are so often the despair of their owners,
whose tastes, more often than not, veer towards the romantic. He was
twenty-two and looked no older, but there was pugnacity in the lower
part of his face and his very clear blue eyes were vividly intelligent.

His dark suit was impeccable and his white collar shining, and if he had
no overcoat it was because, as the newest recruit to the ancient firm of
Wysdom Bros. and Company, Tea Brokers, Bread Lane, City, he did not care
to wear to business his last year’s garment which was Her Majesty’s
khaki. And until the end of the month he would not have quite enough
money to purchase the soberly elegant affair on which he had had his eye
for some time.

However, this temporary deficiency did not worry him. His most obvious
characteristic, which was a natural grace and gaiety of movement, made
him appear a joyous figure striding over the grass as if the world
belonged to him. One of the compensations of youth is its ability to
accept the shifts of life as the trivia they turn out to be, and Richard
Waterfield had seen nothing outrageous in the demand in Annabelle’s
letter that he should journey half across London at nine in the morning
to meet her in some god-forsaken square of which he had never heard. It
was the first letter he had received from her in eighteen months, but he
accepted the call upon him without hesitation, arranging with Messrs.
Wysdom Brothers that he should take the morning off to visit his
dentist.

She was an old friend and ally whom he had known as a neighbour in the
Suffolk village of Dancing.

“_I will wait for you in a park called Garden Green_,” she had written.
“_On the map it looks nice and near the station and the train gets in at
nine. I am sorry to bother you but I think someone living in London
ought to be told where I shall be. I will explain when I see you. If
it’s raining we’ll find a Church to talk in. I mean I shan’t come down
on you for tea or food._”

Her directness amused him. It was one of the reasons he had always liked
the child. She had a sound grasp of essentials. He had decided to buy
her an ice.

He was considering this particular aspect of the problem when
unexpectedly he saw her. He stopped in full stride, his ideas undergoing
sudden and drastic change.

“Hullo Richard,” said Annabelle demurely.

“Hullo,” he echoed cautiously, and added abruptly, “what are you dressed
up like that for?”

The faintest of smiles, fleeting and content, passed over the remarkable
mouth and she made room on the seat beside her.

“I thought you’d be surprised. You haven’t seen me for two years and
five months. It’s Jenny’s coat. I--er--I think I look pretty good.”

Richard sat down. “I hardly recognised you,” he said stiffly.

Annabelle remained content. “It’s my hair,” she explained calmly. “I had
it done properly while I was about it. I’m trying to look as old as I
possibly can.”

“So I see.” He spoke gloomily. He was mourning a very pleasant child who
had been a good friend to him some three years before, when an agony of
calf-love for her elder sister Jennifer had rendered him in great need
of sane companionship. This new Annabelle had blossomed like a whole
flower-bed, apparently, overnight, and looked to his interested eye as
if she might cause a heap of trouble for almost anybody.

To his surprise she laid a hand on his.

“Don’t be silly,” she said. “It’s still me.”

He laughed gratefully, recovering a modicum of his superiority.

“I’m glad about that. They know at home that you’re here, I hope? You’re
not up to anything fantastic, like trying to go on the stage or
anything?”

“No.” She was unoffended. “It’s more complicated than that. That’s why I
wanted to see you, somebody reliable. Jenny knows I’m here of course,
and that means that Medico Mike does too, but we couldn’t trouble
Mother. She’s far too ill.”

Her mention of Dr. Michael Robinson, his successful rival for the
affections of her elder sister, reassured Richard somewhat. That mature
stuffed shirt was at least hard-headed.

“I heard about your mother,” he said awkwardly. “I’m awfully sorry.
Isn’t she any better? I didn’t like to ask.”

“I’m afraid she can’t ever be. It was a stroke, you see.” Annabelle eyed
him gratefully. “It doesn’t really help to talk about it. Jenny’s been
wonderful. She won’t think of marrying Mike until ... well, until it’s
all over. The other two are at school, still, and I’ve just left. I
can’t do what Jenny’s doing because it’s a tremendous feat to pay the
bills out of the income, so I was going to get a job right away. Then
the letter turned up and I thought I’d better be the one to answer it,
and so here I am.”

“So I see.” He was finding it difficult to take his gaze from her face.
“What letter was this?”

“Here.” She produced a plump envelope from her coat pocket and handed it
to him. “See what you think. It was addressed to Mother but Jenny had to
deal with it. You’ll have to read it all, I’m afraid, or you’ll never
get the drift.”

Richard took the packet dubiously. There seemed to be a lot of letter,
pages of it scribbled in an untidy but purposeful hand.

                                                       “7 Garden Green,
                                                           London, W.2.

     “My dear Alice,” it began, “You may not have heard of me but I
     should not be surprised if you have because all families talk, I
     know, say what we will. Well, dear, I am your brother-in-law
     Frederick’s wife, or widow I should say, and I think you may have
     met Frederick before you were married.

     “My dear, he was not a bad chap whatever you may have heard and was
     really very fond of his brother, your husband. I saw that he had
     passed on, poor fellow, some years ago. I am so sorry. It is
     difficult to talk about them, isn’t it?

     “My Frederick was _all right really_ but I can understand that it
     must have been a shock to you all when he went off and joined me in
     my hotel instead of marrying where he was expected to. I think
     perhaps I ought to mention that we _were_ married--Gold Cross
     Registry Office, Manchester, 27th June ’31--a bit late as you will
     notice, I expect, but still we did do it, and we got on very well.
     When he went, poor old boy, in 1945 I was fed up, so I sold out and
     came to live in a bit of property my Dad left me, it falling empty
     about that time. The address is on the top of this letter. It is
     not in a swanky part but I have made it quite nice.

     “What I am leading up to is that Freddy and I had no kids and I
     have no relatives left alive to need anything. I have not won the
     Irish Sweep but I did sell out at the best time and have always had
     a bit put by, being that sort of person I expect.

     “To stop beating about the bush, dear, I believe there is a niece
     of Freddy’s. I remember we saw in the paper her name was Jennifer.

     “Fred kept an eye on births and deaths and if he was too proud to
     write he always drank the health of a name he knew! Well, Alice
     dear, I would like to see this girl. I do not want to promise
     anything because I am as I am and I expect so is she, and we might
     not get on at all, but if you can see your way to it send her up to
     me, and if she is what I have in mind she will not be the loser.
     There is something here for her to do if she is the right sort.

     “Now I have read this I see it looks as if I am up to I don’t know
     what. Do not think that. I would look after her. No silly nonsense
     or staying out late, or _anything not quite straightforward_.
     Anyhow, that is my idea and there is no harm in asking, is there?

     “To close, dear, I hope you are all right. It has been a parroty
     old lifetime for us women, hasn’t it, but I daresay it has made us
     all a bit broader minded than we were long ago. If you decide to
     send the kid have a little chat with her first, because I do not
     want a crying set-out if I am not what she expects. Shall hope to
     see her but will understand if not.

                                                       Yours sincerely,
                                               Margaret (Polly) Tassie.

     “P.S. She must be nearly twenty-four. I expect she’s very nice and
     well brought up but I have opened this to say that if she should be
     really plain, kindly dear, forget I wrote.”

Richard read the postscript twice and looked up, his youthful face
blank.

“I suppose someone _has_ heard of her before?”

“Oh yes.” Annabelle appeared alarmingly complacent. “Father and
Frederick were left our estate between them, with very little money and
a lot of responsibility, but it looked more or less all right because
Frederick was engaged to one of Lord Thole’s daughters over at Pharaoh’s
Field. They were awfully rich. But when Grandfather died Uncle Fred
beetled off, jilted the Honourable, and left Father to wrestle both with
the estate and the scandal. I don’t think there was a row. Just an
enduring coolth. No one even seems to have considered this old darling,
who sounds rather a sweetie, don’t you think?”

He did not answer immediately and she leaned over his shoulder.

“Well, don’t you?”

“I don’t know,” he said honestly. “You’re sure Dr. Robinson has seen
this letter, and that he thinks it was a good idea for you to come up?”

Annabelle hesitated and her grey-gold eyes wandered from his stare.

“I think so,” she said at last. “Things are rather dreary at home just
now. I imagine Mike is a bit bored with me and the two young ones. I
mean, I think that a wealthy relative is just what he feels we need.”

Richard’s expression remained uncharacteristically serious and he turned
back to the first page of the letter before casting a furtive glance at
the breathtaking face beside him. Annabelle hurried on.

“We didn’t write to Aunt Polly, because her letter was to Mother anyhow,
and explanations seemed too difficult and long-winded to be put on
paper. I thought I’d just come up and see what she wanted, but it all
sounded a bit peculiar so I thought I’d better arrange with someone
reliable to know where I was.”

She paused and grinned at him, reminding him vividly of herself as he
remembered her best.

“You’re the only person I know in London,” she said. “It was the
sensible thing to write you, don’t you think?”

“Of course.” Richard stifled an unmanly doubt. “Seven Garden Green. It’s
one of those houses over there, I suppose.” He nodded without enthusiasm
towards the grey terrace, dingy and tall in the mist, which surrounded
the Green on the other side of the encircling wall.

“No, I don’t think so. I came that way. That’s Garden Crescent.”
Annabelle glanced uneasily at the maze of shabby stucco stretching in
every direction. “Perhaps it’s at the back here. I didn’t like to go and
look in case you arrived and missed me.”

He smiled at her. She was terrific. That half independence, half leaning
on one, was the most touching thing he had ever encountered. He got up.
“I’ll find out. You stay there. There’s a bobby down there. He’ll know.
I shan’t be a moment.”

He sped off before she could attempt to join him and caught Bullard just
as he was moving off towards the Barrow Road.

“Garden Green, sir?” In the way of elderly constables he took his time
before replying. “What number do you want? Seven? That’ll be the first
building down that turning on the right over there. You can’t miss the
house. It’s a museum.”

“A what?” Richard was taken by surprise. His eyes looked blue and
astounded.

Bullard could not forbear to smile. The boy reminded him of a startled
pup, with that red setter-coloured hair.

“Isn’t that what you were looking for, sir? It’s number Seven all right.
It’s only a small museum and there’s a house attached which is occupied
by the caretaker. If I recollect she’s also the owner. Name of Tassie.”

“The name’s right.” Richard still sounded shaken. “Thank you very much,
officer. Over there? I see.”

Old Bullard was loth to let him go. He was curious about the pair.
Annabelle in particular had stirred his imagination.

“Number Seven’s the museum all right. Only a small one, admission free.
If it’s any help to you, the house used to be called Tether’s End.”

The boy grimaced at him. “That’s cheerful.”

“So it is.” Bullard was amused. “That’s a funny thing, I’ve been about
here thirty years and never noticed that. It’s the same as _Dunroamin_
only more sarky, isn’t it? Excuse me, sir, but has the young lady come
up from the country?

“Yes, as a matter of fact she has.” To his annoyance Richard felt
himself flushing. He looked across the leaf-strewn grass to where she
sat waiting, and on an impulse turned to the older man and expressed the
incredulity which was overwhelming him. “She’s _suddenly_ got beautiful
like that,” he exploded. “Suddenly.”

Bullard’s smile was charming. “She’s certainly done it, sir,” he said,
and moved off in his deliberate way, highly tickled. It was pleasant to
see a young chap knocked all of a heap like that. Suddenly, eh? Well,
that was how it always happened, and very nice too.

He dismissed the incident and started to think about himself again. It
was quite remarkable, he reflected, what a memory he had got. Ask him
anything you liked about the district and he could answer it pat, just
like that. It was what they called a visual memory. Everything came in
pictures. That little museum and the old girl who ran it, for instance.
She’d only shown him round it once and ...

At that point a picture returned to his mind with the abruptness and
clarity of a price coming up on a cash register. He stopped in his
tracks, his face turning first white and then red in his excitement.
Standing in the middle of the pavement he felt in his pocket for his
notebook, in the back of which was a worn police circular folded in
four. He shook it out with a trembling hand and put on his reading
glasses.

“Details urgently required of the following persons:--Woman, seventy to
eighty years, brown complexion, wearing grey or green shepherd’s plaid
shawl and dark brown hat decorated with large metal beads. Man similar
age, white hair round lower part of face, hard hat....”

Bullard stared at the streaming traffic in the Barrow Road. An idea had
occurred to him which was credible yet so bizarre that it made him feel
dizzy. It was followed by another consideration and in sudden panic he
turned back to look again across Garden Green. The seat was bare. The
misty sunlight spreading over the little glade showed it forlorn and
empty. The young people had gone.




Chapter 4

NUMBER SEVEN


It was a pretty little house, built near the corner and separated from
those on either side by a mass of shrubbery on the left and a high
walled garden containing a studio-like building, presumably the museum,
on the right. The plaster work of the house itself had been restored and
painted a delicate pink, the front door was a shiny peacock blue, and
the sheer curtains at all windows were frilled and festooned.

This glory contrasted violently with some of the neighbours, but here
and there down the short road which connected Garden Green with Edge
Street the same sort of effort had been made. The street was on the
upgrade once more.

Richard watched Annabelle’s progress from the corner. She had refused to
let him go with her but at the same time had appeared gratifyingly loth
to part with him, and he had arranged to wait and see her safely inside.

There was a small paved garden between the house and the road and he
watched her cross it and mount the steps to the porch, but after a while
she emerged, made him a covert sign to indicate that there was no one at
home, and walked on to the door in the garden wall outside which there
was a notice in gold on a black board.

                         COLLECTION OF CURIOS
             Interesting Animal Furniture and other Items
              acquired by the late Frederick Tassie Esq.
                      Hours 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.
                   Monday to Friday, Admission Free
                             Please enter

Annabelle paused for a moment to read the neat professional script. Her
hair spilt on to her tweed collar, her shoulders were tiny and rounded
under the rough cloth, and her travelling bag was held behind her in
her gloved hand. For Richard she made one of those inexplicably
momentous pictures, a pinpoint of wonder, gone as soon as it is born but
not to be forgotten in a lifetime.

Presently she glanced back up the road towards him once more, made a
little gesture of farewell and disappeared through the door in the wall,
leaving him alarmingly bereft.

Once inside she negotiated a glass-covered passage paved with coloured
tiles and mounted three red steps to a second door, which opened into a
large dim room with an unpolished parquet floor. It smelled violently of
naphtha and the uneasy musky scent which hangs for ever round the cured
skins of wild animals, and at first glimpse appeared very crowded.

As she stood hesitating, she saw that practically the whole of the room
save for the gangway, which was roughly loop shaped, was crammed with
unexpected objects whose only common denominator appeared to be the
staggering human folly which had perpetrated them.

Some were protected with glass cases but others were not so fortunate,
and the centre of the hall was taken up with a sort of big game exhibit
with a difference. On a carpet-covered dais two monstrous chairs faced
one another. One had been constructed with dreadful cunning actually
inside the carcase of a small elephant who knelt, trunk at the salute,
to permit the sitter to rest within its quilted stomach, whilst the
other had been made in the same unlikely way out of a giraffe whose sad
head rose disconsolate just above the occupier’s own. Beside them
towered a moth-eaten grizzly whose ferocious snarl was offset by the
fact that a statue-of-liberty flambeau adapted to electricity sprouted
from one menacing paw, and a moulting ostrich supporting an oil lamp
with a pink silk shade completed the group. All four were genuine period
pieces, witnesses to a fashion as barbaric and humourless as any in
history.

As Annabelle walked round the platform the explanation of the show
occurred to her at once. Here, she realised, must be the lifetime’s bag
of someone who had played the time-honoured undergraduate’s game of Who
Can Bring Home The Awfullest Thing with the abandon of youth and the
cash of middle age.

She turned aside to the cases, noting the pair of clogs ornamented on
the soles with the Lord’s Prayer in coloured nailheads, the coat for a
French poodle in black sequins and monkey fur, the six-foot replica in
plaster of the bridal cake of nineteenth-century royalty, and the
collection of moustache-cups decorated with crowned heads and the flags
of all nations.

She came presently to the end of the room where there was a very large
glass case set beneath a partially opened window. The exhibit it had
contained was dismantled and there was nothing now in the seven-foot
cube save a painted backcloth depicting blue sea, a lighthouse and
gulls, and, in front, a small double seat which looked as if it had come
off a pier.

Glimpses of sturdy iron machinery at the side of the backcloth suggested
that at some time the case had housed a working model, and Annabelle,
who was attracted by such things, edged round the back to discover if
she could find a starting lever. She had found one and was just about to
press it when a man’s voice, deep and pleasant, floated in through the
window above her.

“There you are, Polly,” it said. “It looks very nice. But I don’t see
why you had to wash it yourself.”

“Because I wanted my blankets clean, my boy.” The second voice sounded
nice but obstinate. “I appreciate that. I like a man who will help with
the laundry. Are you sure you’ve really got to go? If I hadn’t got
someone coming in to lunch I’d bully you to stay.”

“Darling, I wish I could, but I’ve got to be at Staines at one and
Reading at six. This is a hopeless time to call, I know, but I couldn’t
pass through London without looking you up, could I?” He hesitated and
added after a pause, “Everything’s all right then, is it?”

“All right?” The query was shocked. “Of course it’s all right. Why
shouldn’t it be?”

“I don’t know.” He had a very pleasant laugh. “I was just fishing to be
sure you were glad to see me.”

“Well of course I am.” The elderly voice sounded the least bit
flustered. “You’re a good boy, Gerry.”

“Whatever they say?”

“Oh go along with you. When are you coming in again? I can’t promise,
but next time I may have something to show you.”

His reply was lost to Annabelle whose experimental tinkering with the
lever bore sudden results. Ancient wheels began to turn, the backcloth
to revolve, and at the same time the small siren concealed in the top of
the case began to blare loudly.

The noise was considerable and there seemed no way of stopping it. The
performance, such as it was, went on to the end. A painted jetty
appearing on the backcloth lurched jerkily across the scene, followed by
a dolphin, and all the time a very fair imitation of a steamer’s whistle
continued to fill the dusty air.

Annabelle was still struggling with the controls when a side door to the
garden clattered open and a man came sprinting down the gangway. He
laughed at her expression and, stooping in front of the case, pulled a
concealed lever beneath it. The backcloth shuddered to a standstill and
the noise ceased.

“That’s a bit better, isn’t it?” It was the voice she had heard talking
in the garden. “Mrs. Tassie thought it might be children. They get in
here and play the goat with the place.” He was dusting his hands with a
spotted scarf he had drawn from his pocket and now he handed it to her
absently. “Scrub on this. It’s impossible to keep all this stuff even
faintly clean.”

He treated her as if he had known her for a long time and Annabelle, to
whom the approach was new, was delighted. She considered him with
interest.

Although he was almost old from her point of view, thirty if not more,
she found him exciting to look at. His coarse fair hair was worn en
brosse and he had deep actor’s lines down lantern cheeks. Only the heavy
muscles of his neck spoiled him. His round brown eyes were bright if not
otherwise expressive, and he had a long-boned loose-jointed figure
which was well suited by the light khaki trench coat which he wore
belted tightly round him. Annabelle grinned as she returned the scarf.

“Thank you very much. I’m awfully sorry I meddled with this thing. What
was it exactly?”

He did not reply at once and she added awkwardly, “I mean, what was in
it? What was on the seat?”

He remained looking at her and her impression was that she had offended
him somehow, or raised an unfortunate subject. There was no actual
change in his expression but she was aware of a sudden cessation of
contact like a flaw in a soundtrack. A moment later he was smiling
again.

“Chimpanzees,” he said briefly. “Two chimps dressed as yachtsman, as far
as I can remember. They got the moth in a big way and had to be written
off. It’s a fantastic collection. The old boy who made it was a charmer,
but round the bend I fear. Have you seen the rest? My favourite is along
here somewhere, just beyond the stove, a horse’s hat made of fishbones
knitted by some insanitary islander. Ah, here is Madame.”

He nodded his excuses and went off down the room to meet the newcomer
who had appeared at the garden door. Annabelle saw her with a sense of
deep relief. She was just an ordinary old woman, solid and kindly, like
thousands of others up and down the country. A mum if ever there was
one, with a pink and white skin and smooth grey hair. The sleeves of her
dark woollen dress were rolled up and she wore a neat pinafore decorated
with forget-me-nots as innocently blue as her eyes.

As the man came up to her she put a hand on his coat.

“Thank you, my dear. I can’t bear that row. Must you go? Well, run
along. Get all your business done and come and see me again. Is there
anything you’d like to take with you?”

He laughed. “The bear, perhaps,” he suggested, pointing to it. “Bless
you, Polly, it’s been lovely to see you.” He put his arms round her and
hugged her and she patted him, rubbing his shoulder with a funny little
gesture which was pure affection.

The encounter surprised and slightly irritated the watching Annabelle.
Without realising it, she had been counting on the idea of herself as
the only relative. But these two people were fond of each other, she
saw, not in love but loving.

“I’ll give you bear,” the woman said, laughing. “You bring me back the
others first. Go on, be off with you! Come back when you can. I’m always
pleased to see you, you know that. Goodbye, my dear, goodbye.”

“Goodbye, old gal.” He touched her cheek and went, the inspired cut of
the raincoat lending his gaunt figure a swagger as he strode through the
main door to the passage and the street. Just before he disappeared he
raised a farewell hand to Annabelle, still standing by the empty case at
the end of the room.

Mrs. Tassie stood looking after him for a moment before she came on down
the aisle. She was smiling happily and for the first time Annabelle
caught a glimpse of her as she must have been when Uncle Frederick had
forsaken home and family and fiancée for her, not only a blazing country
beauty but a character, vital as the spring.

She smiled at the girl, cleared her throat, and embarked upon what was
clearly a set-piece.

“Good morning,” she began briskly. “Now, the little collection which you
see before you is not necessarily of an educational nature. It was made
by my late husband, Frederick Edwin Tassie, to entertain himself and to
satisfy his own tastes, which were for the remarkable and unusual....”
She paused abruptly and looked hard at Annabelle. “Well, dear, you see
what it’s like,” she went on relinquishing the formal style with
unexpected completeness. “There’s a lot of it, some bits much better
than others. You like mechanical things best, do you?”

Annabelle blushed. “I’m sorry I started the siren. I was wondering how
it worked, you see, and....”

“Never mind. The things are here to be looked at. My husband loved
showing his old toys to people. That’s what gave me the idea. It’s much
better than a grave, isn’t it?”

“A grave?”

“A monument.” The old mouth was contemptuous. “You know, ducky, lumps
of marble in a cemetery, or little glass blisters with ducks or doves or
something in them. I thought the old sport would rather have his bits of
nonsense kept somewhere where people who were kiddish like himself could
enjoy them, so that’s what I did. I spent the money on this place. It
can’t last, of course, but then what does? I must go over these blessed
animals for moth again soon.”

“That must be quite a problem.” Annabelle, who had experienced it at
home, was sympathetic. “That’s how you lost the monkeys, isn’t it?”

“No, we never had monkeys. Frederick didn’t like them. He knew he looked
a little bit like one, wicked old thing.” She was frowning and her still
pretty eyes had become shocked. “Did Gerry Hawker tell you there were
monkeys once in the steamboat? That’s this thing you started.”

The girl was embarrassed. “The man I was just talking to said something
about chimpanzees.”

“That was Gerry, the sinner.” Mrs. Tassie spoke mildly. “He didn’t want
to be reminded. He’s lost those figures, you know, that’s about it.” She
went over to the empty case and peered in regretfully. “There were two
dear old people sitting in there,” she announced unexpectedly. “They
were life size and quite wonderfully done. Easily the best thing in the
place. The old woman had a nice silk dress and a shawl, and a bonnet
with jet bugles on it, while the old man was so real he was quite as
good as anything in Tussaud’s. The show was called The Steamboat, or
Crossing the Bar, and they used to doze there together looking so sweet.
When the jetty went by at the back it was exactly as if they were on a
boat, sailing off together somewhere.”

Annabelle, who was too young ever to have encountered any entertainment
of a similar unlikely kind, so fashionable at the end of the last
century, was rendered temporarily speechless and her guide continued.
“Frederick adored it. He bought it in an auction room in Blackpool when
one of the showmen sold up, and he’d be livid with Gerry for losing the
figures, although he was so fond of him. I must get them back from the
boy. They’d got a bit of moth and he took them to have them renovated
for me, and of course that’s the last I heard of them. It must be
nearly a year ago.”

Her laugh was half tolerant, half annoyed.

“He’s left them somewhere and hasn’t had time to go and pick them up.
That’s Gerry all over. He takes on much too much.”

Annabelle was curious but still she did not speak. The sun had come out
and the open door, with her overnight bag in the dark corner beside it,
was suddenly very inviting. She took a step towards it but a hand closed
over her arm.

“You’ve not come to see all this dusty old junk.” The kindly voice was
full of laughter. “You’ve come to see me, haven’t you, and you thought
you’d have a look round before you introduced yourself. That’s Freddy’s
family all over. Very wise, my poppet.”

She swung the girl round to face her.

“You’re Jenny Tassie, sent up by your Mamma to see your Aunt Polly,” she
announced, her smile radiant, “and you’re just what I want, ducky.
Absolutely bang-on, as they say. Come inside.”




Chapter 5

THE MAN WHO WANTED TO KNOW THE TIME


The autumn morning air was soft and smelled of rain and the London
street scene was done in pastel shades under a sky of smoked pearl.

Young Richard Waterfield lingered on the corner a little longer than the
ten minutes agreed upon in case Annabelle decided to return. Where the
roads met there was a large double pillarbox and he was behind it when
the man in the trench coat came hurrying out of the door in the garden
wall. Richard was not only surprised to see him but, he noticed with
astonishment, considerably irritated. He hung back for a minute or two
to observe him.

The newcomer went over to the sports car which was parked on the
opposite side of the road and was about to enter it when an idea
evidently occurred to him, and he turned back not to the museum but to
the house. He walked straight into the porch and emerged a moment later
carrying a hat. Since he also slammed the door behind him it was evident
to the watching Richard that he carried a key. Then he climbed into the
car and shot off down the short road to be halted almost immediately by
the traffic coming down Edge Street.

Richard on foot was able to cross and board a ’bus before the car could
enter the stream, but as he settled himself on the front seat of the top
deck he discovered that in the meantime the driver had edged his way
into the flow and was now directly below and in front of him. Both
vehicles were hemmed in by a solid procession. The traffic jam was a
mid-morning special and progress was practically nil.

The driver of the sports car appeared to be taking the delay
philosophically, however, and Richard had every opportunity of watching
him as he leant idly on the door looking at the foot passengers as they
passed by him. He had a narrow head and unusual neck muscles, and
Richard noticed particularly the bravura which belonged to the
generation three-quarters of a step ahead of his own. His curiosity was
deeply piqued. In the letter which Annabelle had shown him there had
been nothing to account for this character who seemed so much at home at
Number Seven.

The car fitted the man perfectly. It was a Lagonda, elderly but so tuned
and titivated that only the gallantry of its basic lines remained to
preserve that off-hand elegance which had been its original glory. It
was open and Richard, who was looking down directly into the back, could
see a coil of fine rope on the worn leather seat, a starting handle with
a dirty tie-on label fluttering from its shaft, and an ordinary wooden
crate of the kind in which half a dozen wine bottles might well have
been packed. This appeared to be nailed down, but there was no wire or
cord round it.

On the top of the bus the red-headed young man in the dark suit thrust
his chin out unconsciously. There is nothing actively suspicious about a
sports car of interesting age, but it does present a certain menace to
any self-appointed knight-errant who is compelled to travel by London
General Transport.

Richard examined his resources. The contents of his pockets were just
about as meagre as he had supposed and presently he unfastened the strap
of his wrist-watch. He turned it over with a mixture of satisfaction and
regret and put it into his trouser pocket. At once his chin became more
aggressive and there was a little upward curl at the corners, of his
mouth.

There was a branch of Messrs. Rattenborough further down Edge Street and
when at last the jam disentangled itself for a minute or two, and the
’bus swept past the huge windows which contained enough plate to fill a
galleon, Richard descended and went round to the narrow door above which
the three balls were discreetly displayed.

It was not often that he pawned his watch, which was one of his few
valuable possessions, but it was his practice to do so in times of
emergency. Quite apart from the sense of comfort which he derived from
having the money in his pocket, the act seemed to underline the
importance of the adventure or predicament in his own mind. It set a
seal of authority upon it, as it were.

The transaction was accomplished without difficulty and indeed, since
the watch was such a nice one, even with a certain amount of social
success. He came out feeling confident and walked back to the ’bus stop,
intending to get back to the office at once. Annabelle had agreed not to
ring the office save in emergency and he had arranged to discover Mrs.
Tassie’s telephone number and to call her as soon as he left work. On
the whole the position appeared to be in hand.

However, at that point he saw the Lagonda again. It was in a side
street, standing before the door of a barber’s shop, an old-fashioned
place which still carried a multi-coloured pole beside the lintel.

Richard hardly hesitated. The familiar way in which the driver of the
sports car had opened the door of Number Seven had shaken him and he
found he wanted very much to know who he was. He walked past the shop,
glancing in. The window was only half curtained and he caught a glimpse
of a narrow, straw coloured head above a towel in the chair nearest the
glass. He pushed open the door and stepped down into the scented
steam-filled room which buzzed with conversation. The noise stopped
abruptly as he appeared and five pairs of eyes regarded him with that
slightly hostile astonishment which appears, in small establishments of
the kind, to be the portion of the chance customer.

The man in the white coat who was attending to the driver of the sports
car looked at Richard inquisitively, decided rather openly that he was
nothing to worry about, and waved him to a seat against the wall, where
already there was one customer waiting.

“Just a moment, sir. Percy here is just finishing. I shall be a little
time on the Major, and that gentleman beside you is waiting for me. But
you’ll find Perce is quite all right. A very fine scissor man Perce is,
aren’t you, Perce?”

The second barber, who was at work on the head of a fat man who was
sitting like a sack with his eyes closed, took no notice at all of the
remark. He was elderly, with a fine distinguished face and brooding
hooded eyes.

“Perce isn’t deaf,” continued the first barber, who emerged as the
proprietor. “He’s just a foreigner. Talks sometimes.” He paused to hone
the cut-throat razor with which he was about to shape the tow-coloured
waves, and Richard eyed him with covert amusement. He was a dark
pale-faced cockney, womanish without being emasculated, who possessed
small hands, dull black eyes, and the caressing version of the local
accent, which is to say it was thick and slightly unctuous, as if each
word was some nice little gift which he felt sure the recipient would
appreciate.

“You make up for ’im though, don’t you, Mr. Vick?” The other man
waiting, a smartish youngster of the salesman type, spoke without
looking up from the sporting sheet he was studying.

Mr. Vick bridled. “I like to be friendly, I hope,” he protested, “and
when I see an old customer like the Major, naturally I get on to old
times.”

“Don’t apologise,” said the man with the paper. “I like it. It helps me
concentrate.”

“Concentrate!” Mr. Vick emitted a drawing-room scream; “You’ll never win
nothing that way. The only way to win on ’orses, dogs, pools or anythink
else is to take it insouciant. Fly at it, if you take my meaning.”

“And then collect the lolly and come right off the ’andle. Drive round
in an ’ired car with a tailor’s dummy and say you’re married. That was
your story, wasn’t it?”

The fat man opened his eyes while he spoke and shut them again the
instant he had finished. Mr. Vick squealed with delight and appealed to
the man whose hair he was cutting.

“That’s a very old anecdote of mine,” he said, grinning at his client
through the mirror. “You remember it, don’t you, Major? It was you who
was so took with it.”

“Me? Not guilty.” The driver of the sports car spoke idly and his smile
was casual enough. But the denial was complete and Richard, who had not
heard him speak before, looked at him sharply.

“You’ve forgot.” Mr. Vick seemed gratified. “You laughed like a
two-gallon flush. I can ’ear you now.”

The man who sat beside Richard folded his paper.

“Who won what?” he enquired.

“It ’appened in Islington when I was a ’prentice.” Mr. Vick spoke
through his teeth, his attention concentrated on some fine work he was
doing with the razor. “A young fellow in a draper’s picked up five
pounds in the street and put it all on an ’orse called Lucky Gutter,
which ’e see was running in the big race that day. It came in at two
’undred to one and the excitement pushed ’im over the edge. ’E turned
’is coat inside out, pinched one of the female dummies out of the
window, put a lace curtain over its ’ead, and drove round in front of
’is young lady’s ’ouse with it as if he was getting married. The shock
upset ’er and she fell down the area, broke ’er leg and sued ’im. It’s a
sad story really.”

“Lucky Gutter,” remarked the salesman, who had a one-track mind. “I
never heard of such a name.”

“There was a line of them,” said the fat man, not bothering to open his
eyes at all this time, “like the Cottages were later. Lucky Rooftop,
Lucky Verandah, and--correct me if I’m wrong--Lucky Clocktower.”

“You remember it now, don’t you, Major? I see you smiling.” Mr. Vick was
coy.

“It’s a staggering tale,” said the Major, catching Richard’s eye through
the glass and grinning at him, “but I never heard it before.”

Mr. Vick opened his mouth to protest and thought better of it. After a
while he sniffed.

“You’ve been coming in ’ere on and off ever since the war,” he began.
“Tell me, Major, any more developments in the you-know-what business?
You mentioned it last time.”

“What was that?” The Major was friendly but cautious.

“The h-u-s-h h-u-s-h,” spelled Mr. Vick rather unnecessarily, and the
man in the chair burst out laughing, the colour flooding his coarse fair
skin.

“Oh, that’s in abeyance,” he said with disarming embarrassment,
“whatever it was. You haven’t any old Rolls Royces about you, I
suppose? Any age, any condition, good prices paid.”

“Ah.” Mr. Vick seized on it. “You’re in that line now, are you?”

“No, I’m not.” The fair man spoke lightly. “Not at all.” He closed his
narrow lips and sat smiling with his eyes, while the little barber’s
curiosity became as noticeable as if he had shouted it.

“You’ve been abroad, I see,” he said suddenly, cutting clean across a
pronouncement made by the fat man, who was still talking of the names of
race-horses.

“No.”

Mr. Vick was unabashed. He picked up a single wiry lock, pulled it out
of curl and let it spring back.

“I made certain this was a bit of foreign cutting,” he said. “Isle of
Wight perhaps.”

“Or Wigan, of course,” said the Major and again his shiny brown eyes
flickered and his glance met Richard’s own in the looking-glass.

“Lucky Clocktower ...” The voice of the sporting salesman was pathetic.
“Who could get a tip out of a name like that. What does it mean?”

“Invariably fast.” The eyes in the mirror laughed into Richard’s and
dropped as the Major glanced at his watch. “Just like this blessed
thing. What is the time exactly?”

The question turned out to be amazingly popular with everybody. Mr. Vick
turned at once to point to the flyblown disc on the wall behind him.

“That clock is dead right by the Shakespeare Head long bar, slow by
Ronnie’s next door, and fast by the B.B.C.,” he announced with
incomprehensible pride.

“It is four minutes and twenty-three--don’t stop me, twenty-four,
twenty-five seconds fast pre-cisely,” said the sporting salesman,
looking at his wristwatch, an impressive performance which he offset
somewhat by adjusting the instrument immediately.

“Wait,” commanded the fat man, heaving himself up and accomplishing
vasty manœuvres under his shrouding cape. “This is the right time. This
is the real time. Railway time, that’s what this is.” He brought out a
large silver pocket watch, looked at it earnestly for some moments,
shook it and put it back. “You’re not far out,” he said to the barber.

Richard shot back his own cuff out of force of habit, remembered in
time, and glanced up sharply to find the Major watching him through the
glass again. The round eyes turned away at once but the younger man was
left with the odd but very definite conviction that for some
inexplicable reason he was pleased. He was certainly smiling as he
turned to the salesman.

“I make it a quarter to,” he remarked. “If you’re right, this wretched
thing of mine has lost a minute and twenty seconds in the past half
hour. Exactly thirty minutes ago I was driving over Westminster Bridge
and as Big Ben chimed I put it right.”

Richard’s pugnacious young face became blank. The lie uttered so
deliberately appeared to be so unnecessary. He eyed the stranger
cautiously. He looked perfectly normal and even pleasant, sitting there
fiddling with his watch, but suddenly Richard became aware of something
very interesting about him. He was engaged in arranging something, some
definite, carefully thought out plan. He could not rid himself of the
impression. There was a wariness and a sense of suppressed force about
the man which was special for the occasion whatever it was.

Richard’s speculations were interrupted by the convulsion in the room
caused by the fat man getting up, and by the time he was himself in the
vacated seat and had persuaded the foreign assistant not to make too
much of a job of the unwanted haircut, Mr. Vick and his favoured client
were in full session once more.

“If you don’t know Greenwich you don’t, Major,” the barber was saying
brightly. “It was you mentioning Westminster Bridge put me in mind of
it. But then of course there’s Shooters Hill. Kent is a lovely county.
See much of Kent, Major?”

“Practically nothing.” A flicker of mischief passed over the thin lips.
“It’s no use, my dear chap, you’ll have to face it that I have no fixed
abode.”

Mr. Vick decided to be offended.

“Now you’re trying to take the mickey out of me,” he said reprovingly,
and stepped back from his handiwork. “Well now, that’s that, sir. That
suit you? I mustn’t keep that gentleman waitin’ if ’e’s going to get ’is
bets on before the one o’clock, must I?”

It was a dismissal, and to Richard’s regret, since he was now trapped in
the other chair himself, the Major rose, paid his score, and took his
trench coat from the peg.

He then performed the second little act which the younger man found
curious. On entering he had evidently stripped off his raincoat with his
jacket inside it, and now he put them on in the same way, so that the
outside of the jacket did not appear. The younger man, watching the
performance in his own glass now, reflected that the manœuvre was the
same as the lie about Westminster Bridge, not so much venal as peculiar,
for despite the slovenly beginning he took some pains to dress himself,
knotting his muffler carefully and arranging his collar with just the
right degree of swagger. As he was drawing in his belt he appeared to
relent towards the inquisitive Mr. Vick, who was still sulking.

“I’m going to see a hero of your’s this evening,” he remarked. “I hope
to do a little business with him. Moggie Moorhen.”

At the name of the celebrated comedian the barber wavered and fell. A
bouquet of refined noises escaped him and his sallow face warmed with
pleasure.

“Are you reelly? My word, that’ll be an experience. Just the very exact
same off as ’e is on, I shouldn’t wonder.”

The Major turned deliberately to Richard’s looking-glass and winked.

“I hope not,” he said dryly, “or we’ll finish the evening swinging from
the Savoy lighting fixtures.”

He went out laughing and the door closed behind him.

Mr. Vick paused, towel in hand, to raise himself on his toes to see over
the curtain.

“There he goes,” he remarked with feminine bitterness. “The Savoy
lighting fixtures?... The Bodega more likely. He’s a very funny finger,
the Major, and he’s in a very funny mood. I noticed it the moment ’e
come in.”

“I t’ink,” murmured the assistant who was cutting Richard’s hair, “that
he is of the po-lice.”

“Oh dear me no!” Mr. Vick tossed his head contemptuously. “You can
relax, Perce. ’E’s got no interest in your papers. ’E’s a very funny
fellow all the same. ’E’s been coming ’ere on and off for the last eight
or nine years and I’ve never set eyes on ’im but in this shop, and I
don’t know what ’e does from Adam. Not from Adam. That’s quite a record
for me. You could call ’im one of my failures, reelly.”

“Mystery man,” said the sporting salesman and ran a hopeful eye down the
list of starters.

“You’ve said it.” Mr. Vick dropped back on to his heels. “Charmin’ man,
mind you. Never shabby. Beautiful shirt ’e was wearin’. Never grouses,
which is fantastic, but talk to ’im and you might be livin’ in another
world. After all this time there’s only one thing I know about ’im for
certain, and that is that every now and again ’e gets up to
something--puts a big deal through.” He paused. “This is one of the
times.”

“How do you know?” Richard spoke involuntarily. It was so much his own
impression.

Mr. Vick’s dull eyes acknowledged his existence.

“Because ’e’s in the mood,” he said confidently. “We ’airdressers get to
know a lot about moods. Goin’ to an ’airdresser at all is a very moody
thing. Some only ’ave a trim when they’re fed up. The Major usually
comes in when ’e’s bored, but now and again--not often, mind, but
sometimes--he steps in ’ere as part of a little programme ’e’s set
’imself. I can tell. I can feel ’im simmering, getting excited and above
’imself. I used to think ’e was an actor working up for a first night,
but that’s not it. There’s no greasepaint in that ’airline.”

“I picked up a packet once on Greasepaint,” said the salesman. “Short
back and sides, if you please, Mr. Vick, and I won’t have the old curry
comb.”

The barber acknowledged the order but continued to talk thoughtfully
about the previous customer.

“It amazes me I don’t know more about ’im after all this time,” he said,
“but I tell you one extraordinary thing. This is the third or fourth
time I’ve seen ’im do it, and no one would be more amazed than ’e’d be
’imself if you told ’im of it. Unconscious, it is. But when ’e’s in one
of these off-the-’andle now-for-it sort of moods ’e’s always in a tizzy
about the right time. ’E always mentions it, ’e always gets the whole
shop arguin’ about it, and it’s a very funny thing but ’e nearly always
picks up the man who ’asn’t got a watch.”

“Then he wasn’t lucky today,” said the salesman. “I wonder if I shall
be. He’s a crook, that’s what you mean, is it?”

“No, sir, I certainly don’t.” Mr. Vick was shocked. “’E’s a regular
customer. Sometimes ’e doesn’t come in for a month or two but if ’e’d
been inside I should notice it at once. It takes nearly seven months to
get rid of the prison ’aircut. Besides, whatever ’e is ’e’s something
unusual, something one doesn’t meet every day.”

At this point the assistant barber removed the cape from Richard’s
shoulders and gave his neck a cursory whisk.

“I ’tink he is of the po-lice,” he repeated, sighing. “Anyhow he has
left his belongings.”

He nodded towards the corner where a wooden box, the coil of rope and
the starting handle sprawled in an untidy heap.

“There now!” Mr. Vick’s scream was like a toy train. “’E brought them
out of the street for safety and then forgot them. That proves ’e’s no
p’liceman. You’ll see. ’E’ll be back. I’ve known ’im do _that_ before.
Ah, what did I tell you? No sooner out of my mouth then.... There they
are, Major.”

The door had shuddered open and the man in the trench coat appeared on
the threshold. He was grinning and deeply apologetic, and his smile
included Richard, who was putting on his jacket.

The wooden box seemed to be remarkably heavy and when he had hoisted it
into his arms he was fully laden. Richard gathered up the rope and the
handle.

“I’ll bring these.”

“Will you? Thanks a lot. My old ’bus is outside.”

When he had set the box carefully on the back seat he spoke again.

“That’s more than kind of you. I’m drifting down to the West End. Can I
give you a lift?”

Richard was looking at the starting handle he was carrying. The worn
label tied to his shaft had fluttered over and the pencilled inscription
upon it was just readable. “Hawker. Rolf’s Dump, S.E.”

He scarcely saw it. As if it had attracted his attention for the first
time the Major leaned over and pulled it off, pitching it into the
gutter.

“Coming?” he enquired.

Richard looked up.

“Thank you,” he said with sudden deliberation, “I should like that.”




Chapter 6

LUNCHEON PARTY


Mathew Phillipson, senior partner of Southern, Wood and Phillipson,
family solicitors of Minton Terrace, West, was a spare elderly man with
the figure of a boy and the pathetic face of a marmoset. At the moment
he was very happy, an unusual condition with him, and his cold eyes had
softened as he watched Polly Tassie as she bent over the stove.

He had telephoned to ask if he could drop round and see her. She had
invited him to lunch as he knew she would and here he was, sitting in
her kitchen waiting for his steak to be done just as he liked it, hard
outside, rare inside.

The room, he reflected, looking at it with appreciation, was exactly
like its owner, ordinary, comfortable and obstinately itself. There was
a red linoleum on the floor patterned like a Turkey carpet, out of date
for forty years. Staffordshire china greyhounds stood on the
mantelshelf, pots of gloxinia and musk of all things were in the window,
and there was a solid kitchen table with a white cloth on it for him to
sit at. He had a hassock under his feet and a waisted glass of dark ale
in his hand, and under the flowered cheese-dish cover he had already
discovered as nice a piece of Blue Cheshire as he had ever seen. There
was, moreover, a cottage loaf, a delicacy he had thought extinct, and
while she was still busy he broke the top from the bottom and was
engaged in slicing off the soft sponge between the two when she turned
and caught him. He laughed, his sallow cheeks flushing.

“I haven’t done that for fifty years,” he said.

“Then get on with it,” said Polly, setting a plate before him. “Be a
devil. Cut the other half. You are a fathead, Matt. I _am_ fond of you.
Freddy used to say you really are the finest stuffed shirt in captivity.
Now try this. It ought to be just right.”

“It is,” he assured her. “You’re a wonderful cook. You always were.
You’re looking young too, if I may say so. I mean unusually so. Radiant.
Has anything happened?”

“Has it!” From across the table she looked up at him, her bright blue
eyes dancing. “Matt, old sport, it came off. They sent her. Not the
eldest, but the second girl. Nearly eighteen, trying to look grown up. I
soon stopped all that.”

“Did they, by jove?” He paused, his fork in mid-air. He was pleased but
astonished. “Frederick’s niece. I wondered if they would. I didn’t know
what to advise you to write. Well, good for them, Polly, eh? That
settles a lot of problems, doesn’t it? I can see you took to her. I
shall look forward to meeting her. When is she coming to London again?”

“She’s here now, only arrived this morning. I thought you might want to
talk business so I gave her some lunch early and sent her out to look at
the shops. She’ll be back before you go. Matt, you’re going to be
startled.”

“Oh dear, am I?” He was suspicious at once. “If she’s a relative of
Frederick’s, of course, she may have _any_ peculiarity. What is it?” He
permitted himself a little smile. “Two heads perhaps?”

“If she had I’d still love her. But no, Matt, she’s a beauty, a real
true film-star knock-out. Really lovely. One of those faces which turn
your heart over and a body like one of the little bits of nonsense you
see on the screen. I’ve been most careful not to let on I noticed
anything, because I do hate conceited kids, but there’s no getting away
from it. You wait.”

He burst out laughing. “You’re clucking, Polly,” he said, “but I’m
thankful to hear it. As I told both you and Frederick, blood is so much
thicker than water when it comes to it.” He hesitated. “You’ll be
completing that document, then?”

“Oh, I think so. I’d only got to put the name in, hadn’t I? You were
right, Matt. I realised it when I saw her.”

“Oh well, I’m glad,” said Mr. Phillipson sighing. “I brought it along
with me, as a matter of fact. Just slipped it in my pocket in case,
don’t you know. I don’t want to hurry you, of course, but these things
are better completed. We’ll see to it after lunch.”

She exchanged his plate for a clean one and uncovered the cheese. She
was smiling to herself.

“You don’t really trust me, do you, Matt? You think I’m like any other
silly old woman, liable to change my mind every ten minutes.”

“No no, I don’t,” he protested. “It’s not that at all. It’s simply that
you and I are old-fashioned people in an old-fashioned situation, in
which years of experience have proved that any young relative, however
distant, is apt to turn out to be a better bet in the long run than
the--er--stranger without the gates.”

Mrs. Tassie was making the coffee and did not answer immediately, but as
she brought the tray to the table and re-seated herself she ventured a
guarded question.

“You’re going to have a word with that boy for me this afternoon, aren’t
you?”

“I saw him yesterday.”

“Gerry Hawker?” She had started and the dark fragrant liquid spilled
over the saucer and into the tray. “You told me his appointment was for
today.”

“So it was. The rascal came a day early, assuming no doubt that I
shouldn’t be able to see him. However, I made time for him. Don’t look
like that, Polly. He’s the guilty party, not you.”

She was busying herself mopping up the coffee tray.

“Did you tell him I knew?”

“No. I obeyed your instructions faithfully. If it’s any comfort to you,
that appeared to be the aspect which worried him most, but I think that
without perjuring myself I left him happy on that score. I conveyed that
I made the discovery quite alone. He believed me.”

“He must.” She was speaking almost to herself. “He came in here this
morning.”

“Really?” Mr. Phillipson was shocked. “He’s a cool customer. He was
trying to find out if I’d reported to you, I suppose? What a very good
thing I hadn’t. That means he still has every incentive to come back
tonight with the money as arranged. I promised him complete secrecy if
he pays up.”

“Are you making him pay it back?”

“Of course I am, my dear girl.” He flushed with annoyance. “That’s the
very least I can do. He has altered one of your cheques from eleven
pounds to seventy, robbing you of fifty-nine pounds as surely as if he’d
taken it from your purse. By condoning....”

“I haven’t done that.” She spoke sharply. “I may feel towards Gerry as
if he were my own, but I won’t stand for him doing anything really
wrong. As soon as I noticed it, didn’t I write to you at once? I feel
guilty because I know I’ve got bad handwriting and I must have made it
very easy and tempted him if he was pushed for money.” She hesitated and
then continued very carefully as she struggled to express herself.
“Gerry has got to be pulled up good and sharp. But I want to keep out of
it, not only because _I_ don’t want to lose his confidence but because I
don’t want him to lose _me_. Do you see what I mean?”

“Perfectly,” he assured her dryly. “You realise that he depends on you.
You’re behaving like a mother thinking solely of the child. You always
do. I’m not blaming you, my dear girl. In fact I’m stretching far too
many points to abet you. But I can’t say I like it.”

“Of course you don’t. It’s criminal.” She made the admission with awe.
“It could mean prison for him if he did it to someone else. That’s why I
had to do something. But he’s a dear, Matt, a kind good boy when you
know him. Freddy liked him very much. We first met him as a young
officer in the war and he’s been dropping in to see me on and off ever
since. We’ve grown very fond of one another. He couldn’t turn out to be
a real bad hat after all these years, could he?”

It was a plea, and Mr. Phillipson, who was fond of her too, knew exactly
what she meant.

“Oh, he’s not the ordinary irresponsible type,” he assured her. “There
are brains there and considerable charm and he certainly seemed quite
frank.”

“Did he tell you he lived in Reading?” She made the enquiry cautiously
and as if she feared his answer. But for once Mr. Phillipson was not
noticing. He was trying very hard to be charitable.

“Outside Reading,” he corrected her. “He has part share in a garage
there, but I gather there has been some trouble with the partner’s wife.
I was inclined to believe his story. In my experience women in business
... well, there’s no point in going into that, but the possessive wife
is always cropping up in these stories. Anyway, the story he told was
one I could well believe and, to a certain extent, sympathise with.”

“All Gerry’s stories are.” Polly spoke absently. She was stirring her
coffee round and round and her mild eyes were troubled.

“And what exactly do you mean by that?” he demanded. “Aren’t those the
facts as you know them? Has he lied to me?”

“No, dear. I’m sure he hasn’t.” She was flustered. “I only meant that
Gerry sometimes presents things in the way that is most likely to
convince the audience he happens to be talking to. I mean he might leave
out the bit about the woman when talking to me, and he might make the
partner his brother and the garage a factory, to sound bigger, you see?”

“Has he done that?”

“Oh no, dear, no. I’m sure I’ve heard about the Reading garage.”

Matthew Phillipson, warm and well fed and flattered by her obvious
dependence on him, sat looking at her sternly.

“Yes ... it’s a very good thing the matter’s in my hands,” he observed
at last. “I don’t like clever women, Polly, never did. To me, you’re
worth a dozen of them, just as you are. We’ll do what can be done for
this wretched chap. If he honours his word and turns up with the money
tonight that’ll be the end of it, but I shouldn’t see much more of him.”

She smiled at him gratefully but her lips were still forming the words
which she did not like to utter.

“The people in your office will know all about it?” she said at last.

“No, they won’t. I’ve prepared for that. He’s coming in after five. I
shall wait for him until half past, and I’ve kept your two letters on
the subject out of the file. You marked them personal and they were kept
private. I’ve promised him the whole thing is confidential between
himself and me, and if he does his part it will remain so. He’ll have
had a good fright, which may prove salutary. And now, my dear, if you
feel like it, we’ll settle that little matter of the residue of your
estate.”

He put his hand in an inside pocket and she nodded absently, her mind
still on the earlier subject.

“Gerry’s all right,” she repeated stoutly. “He only wants the right girl
to love him and boss him. I’ve been thinking about it for a long time.
What he needs is someone young and affectionate and his own class and
...” She became aware of Mr. Phillipson’s shrewd glance and stopped
abruptly. “I’m not,” she protested guiltily, although he had not spoken.
“I’m neither planning nor hoping anything. Honestly, it’s hardly gone
through my mind.”

“I’m very glad it hasn’t.” He was severe with her. “If this niece of
Freddy’s is under twenty-one, and the only thing we know for certain
about Jeremy Hawker is the present very unfortunate incident, then
really I can hardly advise you to let them even meet.”

“Not--not if I’m there?”

“Oh Polly!” He was exasperated with her. “Don’t be absurd. You must know
by this time you can’t look after everybody. If you take my advice
you’ll strike this young blackguard quietly off your list.”

“Don’t say that, Matt.” She looked positively frightened. “Truly don’t.
I tell you I’m fond of him. I needn’t worry because you’ll always be
about, won’t you? I’ll never do anything without you, dear. I do admit
that when I first found out about this dreadful business I thought he
needed a wife to keep him straight, and I thought of Freddy’s niece and
I thought she must be twenty-four or five. But that turns out to have
been the elder sister and she’s engaged anyhow. This child who has come
along is far too young, but she’s sweet. I like her for her own sake.
I’m not a fool, I shall look after her. You can trust me. Now give me
the pen.”

Fifteen minutes later as she was letting him out of the front door
Annabelle came up the path. Mr. Phillipson looked down at her from the
top of the porch steps and turned a blank face to his hostess.

“Good heavens,” he said briefly.

“I know,” she murmured. “I told you,” and went on, glowing down at the
newcomer, “hullo darling, how are the shops?”

“Absolutely whizz.” The schoolgirl suddenly emerging from behind the
sophisticated young lovely took Mr. Phillipson unaware. He found her
enchanting, and although quite conscious that Polly was laughing at him
for it he still displayed a fine flourish of old-fashioned gallantry as
the introductions were performed.

Just before he left them he turned to his old friend.

“This young lady’s a very great responsibility.”

Polly met his eyes. “My goodness, yes.”

Annabelle laughed at them both. “I’m fairly safe out,” she murmured,
reddening.

“Of course you are. He doesn’t mean that.” Polly flew to the rescue.
“He’s just telling me to look after you as he looks after me, like a
hen. Who gave a taxi-driver ten bob to take me home when I was waiting
in the rain, eh Matt? Go along with you, you old sinner, looking so
innocent.”

Mr. Phillipson had not the face for innocence but he did appear
astonished.

“Not I,” he said earnestly.

“Oh, rubbish, don’t lie to me. The taxi-man told me an old friend. In
fact what he really said was ’Op in, Ma. The bloke is on the corner
watching to see I don’t scarper with the lolly. If I don’t take you
he’ll give me in charge.’ I looked back but I couldn’t see you so I got
in very gratefully and came home.”

Mr. Phillipson continued mystified. “You’ve accused me of this before
and I’ve told you I’m not guilty. It’s a charming story,” he said. “I’m
sorry to have to disclaim it.”

“Oh, Matt, you haven’t forgotten the Avenue, that dreadful wet night
when there were murders going on all round.”

He stared at her in amazement. “You’re rambling.”

“I’m not. There was a murder going on in the very next street. Next day
the papers were full of it. You _must_ remember the moneylender who was
taken away in a ’bus?”

“I do,” Annabelle put in unexpectedly. “There were other people in the
’bus too, which made it idiotic. Didn’t you read about it?”

“No.” Mr. Phillipson wiped his hands of the whole affair. “I avoid crime
except when I have to deal with it. I must go. Goodbye, Miss Tassie.
Enjoy your stay in London. Goodbye, Polly my dear. Don’t worry about
anything. I’ll telephone you either tonight or tomorrow morning.”

He went off down the path, waved from the gate, and strode away, a
slender upright figure. Polly watched him go with deep affection.

“Such a sound old boy,” she remarked. “So kind, and he’ll never take
thanks. I rely on him. He’s my common sense.”

The girl glanced at her curiously.

“I don’t think he paid the taxi-man that time, though, do you? I think
he rather wished it _had_ been him.”

“Oh, but he must have.” Polly put an arm round the tweed-clad shoulders
as they went into the house. “Who else could it have been? I’ve lived
most of my life up north, I haven’t many old friends in London.”

“Perhaps it was the murderer.” Annabelle was delighted with the mystery
and her voice was full of joyous nonsense. “I know, the murderer saw you
and thought you might recognise him and stop him, and so he got you out
of the way. That means he’s someone you know.”

“Don’t!” Polly’s reaction was so violent it startled even herself. As
the word escaped her she looked astonished. “Oh, how you frightened me,”
she said, laughing as she caught sight of herself in the hall glass.
“I’ve gone white. What a horrible idea, darling. No, of course it was
Matt, bless him. I knew it at the time. Otherwise I wouldn’t have dared
to get into the cab, would I?” She paused for a moment, her hand on the
stair rail. “No,” she repeated at last. “I know some damn silly boys but
no murderers, thank God. Besides,” she added with complete
inconsequence, “I had a postcard from Gerry, sent from Yorkshire and
dated that very evening. I noticed it particularly at the time. Come
along, my poppet, it’s nearly late enough. Let’s make ourselves a cup of
tea.”




Chapter 7

AFTERNOON WITH MUSIC


The man who had introduced himself as Jeremy Chad-Horder, and had
disclaimed his wartime rank of Major as out of date, was still
chattering amiably.

“As the nineteen fifty-seven car said, between you and me dearie, the
trouble is I can’t tell my boot from my bonnet,” he remarked cheerfully
as he and Richard paused outside the huge plate-glass window of the
Piccadilly motor salesroom. “I find that’s the most important thing to
remember about modern cars. If they appear to be shrinking it’s all
right, they’re going away. I perceive it is closing time. Where shall we
stagger next to top up the alcoholic content? What about the Midget Club
in Minton Mews?”

“Good idea.” Richard noticed with relief that he had kept all trace of
doggedness out of his tone. They were both very sober, he suspected,
although they had so far visited the Rivoli, the Small Bar of the Café,
Ley’s Oyster House, and an assortment of pubs of varying elegance. At
each of these establishments his companion had been recognised and
sometimes with enthusiasm, but they had stayed long nowhere. The younger
man had been able to hold his own financially and socially, but it had
been an effort and so far he had succeeded in discovering little more
about the stranger than had been apparent at the barber’s.

Beyond the fact that he was obviously a charming and convincing liar,
very little else that was concrete had emerged. The one thing certain
was that he had no intention of letting Richard get away from him. Every
tentative effort which the young man made to escape was parried neatly
and some new inducement offered to keep him by his side.

Richard was interested because none of the usual explanations appeared
to fit the bill. Moreover, since he was particularly anxious to discover
what kind of people had got hold of Annabelle without actually spying
on her, the opportunity seemed heaven-sent. The more he discovered the
less he liked, and he decided to stay with the man for a bit.

The Lagonda was parked in Curzon Street and they walked through to
collect it and drove to the northern side of the West End, leaving the
car in a little alley which Gerry knew of just behind Minton Square. It
was very full but he took an immense amount of trouble to get in, and
Richard was struck by the contrast between the driving skill he was
displaying and the fuddled facetiousness he was attempting to convey.

The wooden box was now safely in the boot. It had not proved practicable
to carry it around with them on their quest for refreshment, and they
had stowed it away on their first stop. Gerry looked in the back for it
as they got out and was reassured as he remembered.

“You can’t leave anything in an open car,” he explained. “The whole
blessed place seems to be on the twist these days. The Midget is just
along here on the right. Some people call it Edna’s, after the woman who
runs it. If you’ve not met her before you may find her amusing.”

He took the other man’s elbow and guided him out of the cobbled lane
into the street which ran at right angles to it. There, beside a small
and expensive antique shop, they found a flight of oak stairs leading up
on to the first floor. A discreet sign written in copperplate so that it
suggested a large visiting card assured them that Edna’s Midget Club was
open to members only.

At the top of the flight a small vestibule had been constructed out of
the landing and in it sat a commissionaire with a visitors’ book open on
a table before him. He had a large friendly face and practically no top
to his head, so that the peaked cap which lay by his elbow suggested the
lid of a mustard pot.

He greeted Gerry with a great crow of pleasure.

“No-it-isn’t-yes-it-is-’ullo-’ullo-’ullo,” he said pleasantly. “Nice to
see you again, sir. You’ve bin missed, I’ll say you’ve been missed.”

He dipped the pen in the ink, pushed the book forward and winked.

“Jeremy Blah-blah and Mr. Richard Wah-wah,” he announced, blotting the
entry with pride. “Straight in, sir. Go and get your welcome home.”

The man in the trench coat hesitated, his face alight with the
shamefaced laughing apology which Richard had begun to consider
characteristic of him. Despite its admissions it was by no means
unattractive and it suited the lean face and softened its deeply scored
lines.

“Is she there?” he murmured.

The commissionaire raised his eyes and suddenly showed all his yellowing
teeth in mock ferocity.

“All ready to eat yer,” he whispered and shook with silent laughter
which made him scarlet in the face.

Gerry smiled at him briefly and his forehead wrinkled like a piece of
corrugated paper.

“Here’s for it,” he said to Richard and pushed open a door on the right.

The Midget Club was smart of its kind and what was called by its
habituées ‘exclusive, sort of’. It occupied the whole of the first floor
of the small period house and was composed of a single L-shaped room
divided by a large archway in which had once hung the panelled double
doors of a more gracious age. Now most of the ornamentation had been
achieved with paper, a design of white candelabra on grey on the darker
walls and an explosion of gilt stars upon crimson on the lighter ones.
In the first and smaller half of the room there was a long bar, its
supports painted to simulate flat Regency pillars, while in the larger,
darker portion of the place there was a mock window, a television set
and a number of easy chairs with coffee tables before them. The air was
heavy with perfume and alcohol and blue with cigarette smoke, but the
main crowd had not yet arrived.

A knot of pretty girls, doubtless young actresses, were sitting in one
corner with their heads together, their voices lowered and sibilant over
the latest wrong. In an alcove two dark-coated men were squaring up some
private account, little black books and banknotes on the glass-topped
table before them, while on a high stool by the bar, his feet drawn up
under him, there sat the inevitable hunched individual whose entire body
down to the smallest facial muscle appeared to be in the grip of
paralysis. He sat there, patient and motionless, as if he were being
slowly petrified into red sandstone, and nobody took any notice of him
at all.

The one personality the room contained was behind the bar, talking to
the yellow-haired lady-companion who appeared to be serving there. This
was a tall dark woman of thirty-two or three who wore a severely
tailored suit in grey cloth and whose hair was brushed into a smooth
hard shape like a shell.

From a conventional point of view she was good looking, with regular
features and eyes which were a trifle more slate colour than blue under
decided brows. But her main distinction lay in her nervous force and the
suggestion of quiet capability and hardness which enveloped her.

It was evident that she was the Edna of the club’s title, general
manageress and at least part-owner.

Richard himself was a good-looking youngster, not conceited but
accustomed to making an impression in his own quiet way. He was aware of
her quick appraising glance and was looking at her when her eyes left
him and passed to his companion. A wave of feeling so violent that he
actually saw it sweep over her, leaving her cautious and expressionless.
Her educated voice, schooled to be friendly, greeted them crisply.

“Hullo, Gerry, gin?”

“And ginger. Richard here insists on bitter but doesn’t mind it bottled.
Can you oblige him?”

“Of course.” She smiled absently, served the drinks and took the money,
moving off to the other end of the bar, only to come gliding back
immediately as if she had been drawn unwillingly by a thread. “It’s a
long time since you’ve been in.” The tone was bright and yet the remark
sounded like a reproach.

Gerry looked at her over his glass, his eyes meeting hers and holding
them.

“So what?”

Her eyes widened very slightly but apart from that she gave no sign of
having heard him.

“I hope you’ve got a good story or two,” she remarked. “No one else has.
We had the whole of the ‘Up the Pole’ crowd in last night and in
desperation they started telling jokes out of the show, like bears doing
their tricks when there was no bun in it.”

Gerry laughed. “Which one of them said that?”

She refilled his glass and, putting her elbows on the bar, leaned
forward with a gesture which managed to convey that she was excluding
everybody else in the room.

“You haven’t had any food.”

“We have. Better than anything we’ll get here. Smoked salmon at Ley’s.
Don’t keep Richard out of this. Richard, keep your attention riveted on
this woman. I may need you.”

The boy, who was sipping the warm inferior beer he did not want,
regarded them both with polite curiosity. He was in the picture but not
of it. He could follow the words, as it were, but not the tune.

Edna gave him a casual preoccupied glance which was yet not unfriendly.

“That’s Tilly O’Dea over there,” she remarked, nodding towards a
chattering lovebird of a girl in the midst of the group of actresses.
“Would you care to meet her?”

“He’d hate to. He’s civilised.” Gerry was pretending that the last two
drinks had been more powerful than anyone could reasonably have
supposed. “Edna, why don’t you go away?”

Richard smiled at her faintly and stepped back with the intention of
wandering off to admire the decor when a hand closed round his wrist and
drew him back.

“Keep on the bridge, Mister Christian, we may be sinking,” said the man
in the trench coat.

The woman began to speak. She was flushed and her eyes were desperate.

“Gerry, I want to talk to you. Come into the rehearsal room for a
moment. I shan’t keep you long.”

He stepped back and looked at her and the familiar depreciating smile
reappeared. It seemed certain that he was about to say something
unforgivable, but he let the moment pass.

“Oh well, it would be something to do, wouldn’t it?” he observed
unexpectedly. “Richard must come too. He can dance with you while I play
the piano. Then you can talk to your heart’s content. Or perhaps you’d
rather sing it.”

“You’re not so terribly amusing;” she said savagely, but she came round
the bar at once and led them to the end of the further room where there
was a door concealed in the crimson lincrusta papering. She unlocked it
with a key from her pocket, pushed them through it, and secured the door
again behind the three of them.

Afterwards it seemed to Richard that at that moment he stepped not only
through a physical wall between one house and another but also through
some less tangible barrier.

It was as if the man he was trying to discover ceased then to promise to
turn out to be some ordinary character of whom he had already met other
versions and began to emerge as an individual, and more sinister.

It was not an incident which marked the change so much as an atmosphere
which met him as they came into a square, comparatively light room which
duplicated the one they had just left, save that here the double doors
had persisted and were now closed.

It was bare save for a row of bent-wood chairs set against the further
wall, and a black piano standing shabby amid a thicket of music stands.
Here the window was not camouflaged as in the club but was stark and
ugly and looked out on a bare wall of soot-stained yellow brick not ten
feet away.

Gerry sat down at the piano at once, strapping his trench coat belt even
more tightly about him with the buckle very high on his chest. He began
to play, revealing a sound of mediocre talent but a very distinctive
touch. In the harsh light his skin showed very coarse and his hair more
bleached, but his hands were strong looking and sensitive enough, with
long spatulate fingers which turned back at the tips.

He was improvising on a popular number, a favourite with the crooners,
‘_How are you getting on with your forgetting?_’, and as he let the
familiar notes trickle through his fingers he watched with wide-open
lazy eyes the irritated woman standing above him.

“Oh, for God’s sake, Gerry,” she began at last, “you’ll be sorry if you
don’t hear this. This is serious!”

“Nothing is serious today,” he said, shaking his head and sliding into a
rumba rhythm. “I can’t hear a word you say. Mime it. At least that’ll
make it funny.” The notion seemed to amuse him for he laughed and the
original tune re-emerged and grew and changed under his hands.

Edna swung away and Richard, who was dancing already, caught her and
swept her down the room. She was taken by surprise but she responded and
her expression changed to startled approbation. Richard was one of those
rare people who dance from the heart. Their movement is not only
graceful but joyous and their delight in it is irresistible. She
followed his lead effortlessly but her mind was still on the man at the
piano, who watched her, still with the same half smile. The standard of
the performance appeared to please him because he began to play for
them, and Richard, who was young enough to be able to imagine that he
was dancing with Annabelle, lost himself in the pure pleasure of the
exercise.

Edna spoilt it. She was still quarrelling. Richard was sorry for her but
naturally was not attracted by the complex emotions of a woman ten years
older than himself. As far as he could see, she was ravaged with fury
against Gerry for not making love to her, and rage against herself for
wanting him to. All the rest of her behaviour, he judged rightly but
with an academic appreciation only, was a product of this initial
situation. She was certainly suffering. He could feel the waves of
irritation passing through her as he held her.

“Dance,” he said suddenly and smiled at her. “Dance it off.”

The colour came into her face and her slate-grey eyes softened. She
might have been quite all right, he thought, if not tormented.

She made the effort but it did not last.

“I’m expecting Warren Torrenden in.” She threw the name at the piano
suddenly. “Does that ring a bell?”

“Who?” It was the first time she had raised any response at all from
Gerry. Now he did not show any great interest but he played a little
more softly so that he could hear her.

“Warren Torrenden, the racing driver.”

“Never heard of him.”

“Oh, Gerry, don’t be such a _silly_ liar. You went to Silverstone with
him on the fourteenth and you were calling yourself Hawker or something.
I don’t know what you let him in for but he’s certainly looking for you.
That’s what I’ve got to tell you.”

There was no break in the music but the quality went out of it and
Richard, glancing at the man, was surprised to see that his idle
half-laughing expression had not changed.

“Wild lunatic nonsense,” he observed affably. “Cracking insanity. Simply
not true.”

“But Gerry, you were there and you were with him. I saw you. I saw you
myself in the paddock. Everybody in the club saw you both. It was on
television. You were standing just behind the commentator in the crowd.
You were on for whole minutes.”

The tune came a little faster but his smile did not change.

“Warren Torrenden. Silverstone. The fourteenth. No. Absolutely entirely
not. Not guilty. Two other men.”

“But I tell you I saw you. I’m trying to help you, Gerry, don’t you
understand that?” She was still dancing and Richard was fascinated by
the phenomenon. Gerry’s music and her movement formed a link between
them which, although unconscious, was affecting the degree of their
quarrel considerably.

“You saw someone else,” he said. “It’s as easy as that.”

“It’s not. You’re caught, Gerry. This time you can’t slide out of it.
You see, I was watching with Peter Fellows, whom you don’t know, and
when I said ‘There’s Gerry’ he said ‘There’s Warren’. We thought nothing
of it at the time but Peter must have mentioned it to Torrenden because
a few days later he came roaring in looking for you. He said your name
was Gerry Hawker and I said it wasn’t.”

Gerry took his hands off the keyboard and leant back on the stool.

“You said it wasn’t? That was helpful.”

“Why? It isn’t, is it?”

“The name of the man Torrenden was with probably was Hawker.”

“But that was you. I saw you.”

“No. Absolutely and entirely not.”

He began to play again but she did not dance, although Richard attempted
to persuade her. She remained where she was, looking down at the
pianist.

“He comes in every day about half past four hoping to run into you,
anyway,” she said grimly. “You can answer the question very easily once
and for all by meeting him.”

“Very well, I will.” He seemed to have settled the matter and his
strumming became lighthearted again.

The other two went on dancing. Edna was not satisfied but she was
happier. Richard assumed at first that it was because she had got the
message off her chest, but gradually the impression was borne in on him
that she was principally relieved because Gerry had indicated that he
would stay at least until half past four. They danced for nearly a
quarter of an hour before she brought the subject up again. It was as
they were passing the piano that she suddenly stopped and faced Gerry
across it.

“Torrenden is wild with you,” she said hurriedly. “He tells everybody
that you told him you came from Reading and had a motor business there.
I don’t know what you did--he doesn’t say--but he’s after you. He’s not
the type to monkey with, Gerry. He keeps trying to find out where you
live. I--I didn’t tell him.”

The man at the piano did not seem upset by the information or irritated
by her implied repudiation of his original denial. He merely nodded, as
if his mind was only just on the subject. His hands still moved over the
keys.

“Do you know?” he enquired pleasantly.

“Where you live? You’re still at Lydaw Court Hotel, aren’t you?”

“God no! I left that dreary heap nearly four months ago.”

“But I’ve seen you in the club here since then. You never told me you’d
moved. I’ve been writing and telephoning you there. That’s why I haven’t
heard, I suppose?”

“Shall we call it a contributory cause?” He laughed. “I can just see all
those letters, the handwriting growing angrier and angrier, all in the
residents’ rack in the lounge. It must have given the old women
something to chatter about. I wonder if they steamed them open.”

“If they did they got an earful.” She was trembling. “Where do you live
now? Did you get that flat you were thinking about? Who is there with
you?” She turned to Richard. “Has he got a flat?”

“I don’t know, I’m afraid. We’ve only just met.” Richard drew away.
“Time I drifted off.”

“Oh, don’t break up the party.” The protest from Gerry was astonishingly
forceful. “Let’s wait and meet this chap Torrenden. He’s making an ass
of himself, but it’s a rumour one ought to scotch, I suppose. After all,
one has some credit to think of.”

He began to play the rumba again, very softly, talking all the time.

“It’s so excruciatingly silly. I haven’t even been to Silverstone this
season.” He threw out the disclaimer and hurried on before it could be
queried. “Last week I went to an extraordinary meeting in Lichtenstein,
of all places. Most dramatic. A chap barricaded himself in behind a
great wall of oil drums and then suddenly emerged in a little yellow
mystery wagon and cleared the board. Perfectly ridiculous. The maddest
thing I’ve ever seen.”

A slow red flush spread over Edna’s face and her eyes grew several
shades darker.

“Now that is typical of you,” she said bitterly. “For no reason at all
you suddenly come out with a statement that a child wouldn’t believe.
You haven’t been to Lichtenstein, there was no racing there, there was
no wall of oil drums and no wonder car. Who the hell is impressed? Me,
who’s known you far too well far too long? Or this kid who’s never seen
you before this afternoon?”

It was a savage outburst and Gerry’s good humour appeared to increase
before it, just as, when she was attempting to placate him, his ill
humour had grown.

“No oil drums?” he protested lightly. “My good girl, there was a wall of
them, fifteen feet high. Let me describe them. They were black, with
studs all the way round top and bottom, as well as a line round the
middle, and they made an absolutely impenetrable barrier with this
mystery packet behind it.”

He was playing joyously now so that Richard’s feet began to move without
his being aware.

“Edna,” Gerry went on suddenly, “do you remember our cottage at Bray?”

“Why bring that up?”

“Because I like to see your face change.” He was laughing, holding her
glance with his own. Her sulky colour deepened and she looked cowed and
as if she was going to cry, which was embarrassing because she was not
at all that kind of woman.

“It wasn’t _our_ cottage,” she protested with a return of spirit as soon
as she achieved command of herself. It was clear that while she regarded
Richard as too young to be anything but negligible, she resented this
past incident of her sex life being trotted out before him. “If you
remember, you rented that cottage furnished for a month for an elderly
couple who you said were clients of yours. They’d come down from
Yorkshire, had sold up their home and were on their way to South Africa.
They went off earlier than they expected and so you persuaded me down
there for the odd fortnight. The poor old idiots hadn’t packed properly
either, so we kept coming across things they’d forgotten. The woman had
even left a handbag. I bet you never sent all that stuff on to them.”

Her voice died before Gerry’s stare and Richard also was struck by
something very odd in his face. Just for a moment it became utterly
blank, not merely without expression but deserted, as if there was no
one behind it.

The familiar rueful smile returned almost at once.

“Gosh, I don’t remember anything about the place except that it smelled
of jasmin and the river ran through the garden,” he said presently. “I
remember we swam at night and there were glowworms on the other bank.
You were quite different down there, Edna. Not so hard....”

“Here, don’t!” she exclaimed in sudden pain, flinging Richard’s opinion
of her to the winds. “Don’t, Gerry! What the hell’s the matter with you?
Coming in here and talking like this after staying away silent until I’m
absolutely crawling up the wall. Why remember the cottage suddenly?”

He sat laughing at her gently, his charm a living thing and the
intelligence, which was sorry like an ape’s, showing in his flat eyes.

“Seeing you reminded me. It was terribly terribly sweet, somehow,” he
said, “wasn’t it?”

She made no reply but stood staring at him in a sort of helpless
exasperation, her only real anger against herself.

“Well, let’s see, half past four we expect Torrenden,” Gerry went on
absently. “I’d better meet the chap since my name’s been mentioned. That
sort of mistake can be awkward if it isn’t seen to. Then Richard and I
have an appointment for five-thirty, but after that, about six, I don’t
see why we shouldn’t come back to the Midget. Are you going to be here
all the evening, or could you get away for an hour or two if we went on
somewhere?”

There was colour in her face. She looked ten years younger.

“I don’t trust him across the street,” she said to Richard. “I’ve heard
it so often.” Her glance at Gerry was almost shy. “Joannie is behind the
bar, of course. She could manage if I looked in again before midnight.
I’ll speak to her. You really have got to keep this appointment at half
past five, have you? I’d believe you more easily if I wasn’t going to
let you out of my sight.”

“Darling, don’t be silly.” He took his hands off the piano and took hers
in both of his. “We’re hardly going across the road. We’ll be back in no
time at all.”

“Just long enough for one drink, I suppose?”

“No drink. Ten minutes’ conversation, and then an evening on the tiles,
you and me together, and we’ll find a wench for Richard. It’s a bet.”

He lifted his face to her and grudging, yet very grateful, she bent and
kissed him on the mouth. It was done very lightly, very naturally, but
the tension went out of her like the strain out of a taut wire. Her
spirits began to mount and a new and gay personality whom Richard had
not suspected suddenly emerged. She was amusing, slightly ribald, and a
little malicious, but very good fun, a worldly, joyful animal,
ecstatically happy.

The dancing went on for half an hour or more and the fashionable
semi-wisecracking was interspersed with gossip of mutual friends.
Eventually Gerry glanced at his watch.

“It’s a quarter to five,” he said. “If Torrenden is coming he ought to
be in the next room. Run along and see, darling, and if he is bring him
in here. It’ll be less embarrassing for him. Come on, give us the key.
Through you go.”

He got up, slid an arm round her, released the key from her fingers and
led her over to the inner door which he unlocked for her. With his hand
on the latch he paused, kissed her once more, slapped her gently behind,
and pushed her through the door which he closed after her and locked
again. Then, moving quietly, he walked across the room to the double
doors, opened them and glanced back at Richard.

“Sorry to let you in for this,” he said charmingly, “but it’ll save a
dreary scene if we go out this way. She’s a dear gal but boringly
possessive.”




Chapter 8

POLICE THEORY


The famous teaching hospital of St. Joan’s in the West stands almost
next door to the new police station in the Barrow Road. Charlie Luke and
Mr. Albert Campion went to the Institution together in a police car
immediately after the call came through on the Superintendent’s newly
installed private line from the Garden Green area.

They were met in the vestibule by the man who had telephoned. This was
Detective-Sergeant Picot, who was an old friend and colleague of Luke’s.
He came forward as they entered, a square heavy man who, at the moment
at any rate, seemed beset with the deepest misgivings. He forced a smile
as they appeared and his handshakes were hearty, but he was not at all
happy and as soon as he had edged them into a reasonably secluded corner
he came out with an apology.

“I don’t know quite how you’re going to take this, sir,” he said, “but I
simply obeyed orders. You said quite definitely that you wanted to hear
_anything_ bearing on the Goff’s Place enquiry, however trivial.”

Luke grinned. “And someone’s had a dream?” he suggested cheerfully.

“You’re not too far out, that’s a fact.” Picot’s plump face coloured.
“It’s a flimsy idea and it’s negative, so I thought you’d better hear it
from the man who brought it in. That’s why I’ve troubled you to come out
here to see him.”

“The poor old boy stopped a barrel, you told me?” Luke glanced round the
vast interior which looked so like a civic hall and shrugged. “Lousy
luck, I hate these places. It was the usual story, I take it?”

“It was, sir. A brewer’s dray was unloading outside the Bull and Mouth
and a firkin of mild jumped the chute to the cellar and fell on the
pavement. It rolled straight into the constable. He hadn’t an earthly.”

“What was the damage?”

“Left ‘Tib. Fib.’ fractured in two places. It might have been worse. But
he’s no chicken. An elderly feller called Bullard. Been here years.”

“What, Harry?” Luke was genuinely grieved. “I remember him well. What
sort of bee has he caught in his bonnet? He won’t have imagined much,
that’s one thing.”

“Quite.” Picot’s tone was flat. “I heard he was asking for me so I
dropped in to see him this afternoon, and as soon as he’d told me what
was on his mind I went in to the office and telephoned you. I’ve had him
moved to a private ward so he can speak freely. He’s not long out of the
anaesthetic, but he’s lucid. Will you come up?”

Ten minutes later a pale wraith of Constable Bullard’s fatherly self was
looking up at Luke from his high bed with the cradle in it. The
Superintendent’s sympathy was genuine and the whole force of his
personality seemed to have been translated into charm. He had listened
to a full account of the accident once again and had registered
surprise, regret, indignation, and congratulation at appropriate moments
and was now preparing to extract the information for which he had come.

As Mr. Campion watched Luke he reflected that it was easy to understand
Yeo’s anxiety. Both Picot and Bullard were loth to tell him any
unwelcome news.

“Well now, Harry.” The Superintendent stood at the foot of the bed.
“Just before the accident you came up the road from Garden Green where
you had been talking to a couple of young people. They had asked you the
way to a house where, you remembered, there is a little museum. Is that
right?”

“Yessir.” Bullard was bereft of his teeth and inclined to mumble, but
his eyes showed bright against the linen. “I was walking along thinking
about this ’ere museum and the oddities the youngsters were going to see
there, and an idea came to me. I hope it won’t upset you.”

“We’ll risk it.”

“Well, sir, you’ll recall that last spring a witness came forward to
depose that the two old people whom he saw inside the ’bus in Goff’s
Place had also been seen by him in the window of a tea shop in this
area?”

“Yes.” Luke was frowning. His hands were thrust deep in his trouser
pockets and the skirts of his black overcoat fanned out behind him like
the tail of a crow.

“It was that fact which made you--that is to say all of us--feel sure
that this was probably the district in which to look either for the old
folk or else for the murderer. Er--nothing else connects this area with
the crime at all.”

“Yes, that’s so.” Luke’s frown was growing blacker.

“Well, I was one of the fellers specially briefed to keep my eyes open
for the old couple, sir. I learned the descriptions by heart, like I
always do, so I knew what they were like in words but not in pictures,
if you see what I mean.”

Luke nodded. “I follow that. Go on.”

“Well....” Bullard indicated that he was coming to the difficult bit,
“...this morning when I was recollecting one particular item in the
museum I realised that when I recall a real thing I see it in pictures.
See it all over again in my mind’s eye, so to speak. So I started
putting my memory of this exhibit, which was two waxworks in a glass
case, into words for a sort of an exercise. They was the _same_, Mr.
Luke. They was identical. You couldn’t argue. What that witness saw
in this area was not two people in a teashop but two wax figures in a
glass case. I’ll take my dying oath on it.”

“Waxworks figures.” Whatever Charlie Luke had expected it was not this.
He put back his head and laughed aloud. “Have you seen these things?” he
enquired of Picot.

“Not yet, sir. The collection is shut in the afternoons and I thought I
wouldn’t disturb the old lady who runs the show until I heard if you
wanted to go down there yourself.”

Luke glanced at Campion who was on the far side of the room.

“How does it strike you, Guv’nor?” he enquired.

Mr. Campion hesitated. “Of course, witnesses sometimes do try too hard,”
he said. “There was only one man who could describe the two in detail,
the waiter, and he produced rather a lot of detail, don’t you think?
After all, he only saw them once through the windows of a ’bus on a wet
night and once through what he thought was the window of a shop as he
passed by. The only thing definite is that he saw them through glass on
each occasion. I’m afraid he’s been over-anxious to help.”

The Superintendent drew a long breath. His shoulders were hunched.

“That means there’s nothing to connect them with the area at all,” he
said.

“The images are wonderfully lifelike, sir,” Bullard murmured from the
bed.

“I daresay they are, old boy.” Luke spoke sadly. “All the same, I reckon
the witness has invented the likeness. He saw the two old people in a
’bus and they reminded him of the two waxworks in a case. That’s all
there is to it. That’s torn it.”

It was a great blow to him. Every man in the room was aware of it.

“I’ll have the waiter taken down there in the morning to confirm it,” he
said. “He’ll realise his mistake as soon as he gets back to the place.
Who owns it, did you say? Some old highbrow woman?”

“No, sir, just a widder.” Bullard smiled. “The exhibits belonged to her
husband and she keeps the show going in his memory. You’d like her.
She’s pleasant, normal, if you know what I mean.”

“I suppose I do, just,” said Luke and his white teeth appeared briefly.
“So long, Harry, get well.”

All three visitors had reached the windswept forecourt which faces on to
the Barrow Road before the Superintendent paused in his stride.

“That’s the area which interests me,” he remarked to Campion, nodding
towards the mouth of the passage on the opposite side of the way. “If we
went down there and turned right we’d be in Garden Green. This bit of
news is a set-back. It interferes with all my calculations. And yet you
know I still feel this is the stamping ground of the man I’m after.”

Picot said nothing but looked at Mr. Campion.

“He’s somewhere there,” Luke went on. “I know it, I feel it. I’ve half a
mind to go down and see that museum while I’m here.” He put a hand in
his pocket and drew out a coin. “Heads I do, tails I don’t,” he said and
spun it in the air.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile at Number Seven, Garden Green, Polly Tassie was giving her
mind to Annabelle. They were in the small sitting-room at the back of
the house which was her own special apartment. It was set half a storey
higher than the two rooms which flanked the front door and was more
pleasant than either, with a lower ceiling, flower-spattered walls, and
a single long window which looked over the garden and was set so low
that a small wrought iron balcony had been constructed outside it for
safety’s sake.

There was nothing very fashionable about the decoration, although it was
apparent that it had been the subject of a great deal of thought. The
effect was cluttered but comfortable and there was a note of gaiety in
it which Annabelle found enchanting and slightly funny.

The loose cover of the couch on which she sat was scarlet and white
calico, like the handkerchiefs of workmen long ago. The rug before the
modern gas fire was a rag one, beautifully made but unexpected, and
along the chimney-piece there was a row of exquisite china ladies with
tables by their sides and dogs in their laps, and a small china clock in
the centre.

Polly, who had changed into a plain black dress for her luncheon with
Matt Phillipson, had cheered it up now with a black silk apron trimmed
with coloured flowers and white muslin embroidery which someone had
brought her from Switzerland. She had also put on a red jersey coat
against the cool of the evening, and the effect was slightly
fancy-dress, a fact of which she appeared sublimely unconscious. She sat
upright in her highbacked chair at the side of the hearth. She was
pouring tea from a silver pot and looked as if she had been doing it for
ever.

“We’ll go to the pictures,” she said, “and as my old Mrs. Morris doesn’t
come today we’ll have some food out. You can’t go dancing because I’ve
not got anyone to take you yet, and you haven’t got a dress either, but
we’ll see to that in the morning. The first thing to do is to write to
your sister and see how long you can stay.”

Annabelle, who looked like a spoilt kitten curled luxuriously on the red
couch, grinned disarmingly.

“I can stay until you get tired of me,” she said frankly. “Forgive me,
but don’t you think the less fuss you make the longer it will last?”

Polly laughed. “Do you like homes?” she enquired unexpectedly.

“Do it yourself, and how to make a spare bed for yourself out of old
wine boxes?” Annabelle sounded dubious.

Polly was amused but her enquiry had been genuine. “No. I wondered, are
you terribly interested in where you live? I’m too much that way.
Whenever I go into any sort of building, church, cinema, anywhere, after
a bit I always find I’m worrying how I could fix it up if something
happened and Freddy and I had to live there.”

“Where the furniture would go?” Annabelle was delighted by the fantasy.

“Where the sink would _have_ to go,” said Polly solemnly. “How the
drains run and so on. I remember having to meet your Uncle on Euston
Station once. They had open fires in those days, but even so the main
waiting room was very bleak. It was enormous and such an uncosy shape.
By the time he arrived I was in quite a state and like a mug I told him
about it. He laughed all the way home. He said I was a monstrous fool,
but he saw why I made him comfortable.”

Annabelle rocked on the couch in joyful superiority.

“No, I’m not like that,” she said. “I like this room, darling, and I
have got a nesting instinct, but I should never feel I must make
something of Euston. I love these cups, by the way. They’re old, aren’t
they?”

“Early Victorian. My great granddad bought seven services all alike.”
Polly was very happy. “He had seven ugly daughters, which was a calamity
at that time of day.”

“A bit of a facer at any time,” murmured her visitor.

“Ah no, but this was awful.” Polly spoke with feeling. “It wasn’t
considered the thing to send them out to work, so he had either got to
get them all married or sit and listen to them lamenting. If he’d only
had the one he could have given her a nice fat dowry, but since there
were seven he did the right thing and divided the fortune equally. He
let it be known locally that each girl would have a tea-set too, and
then he sat back and took what came. My grandmother got the proprietor
of the inn, who was a fine-looking man, and this is the tea-set.”

“Did your mother worry where the furniture was to go?”

“I shouldn’t be surprised.” Polly was content. Her blue eyes were lazy
and the room was warm with security. “Mother was a great housekeeper.
When I was a girl we still made beds from our own goose down. You’ll
sleep on one tonight. There’s nothing like it. Beds haven’t improved in
my time. Draughts have.”

“Draughts?”

“Currents of air, usually freezing.” Polly was laughing deep in her
throat. “I’ve stopped them here all right and overdone things as usual.
There’s a patent outfit on that window and another on the door, and now
I have to leave one or other open or the gas fire goes out. What are you
laughing at, you wretched child? You think I’m an old fool, don’t you?”

“I don’t.” Annabelle was pink with amusement. “I think you’re wonderful.
I only wish you’d come and stop the draughts in our house.... Oh, am I
what you had in mind, Aunt Polly?”

The spontaneous question, premature, naïve and over-eager, touched the
old woman to the heart.

“Better,” she said swiftly. “Much better. I think you’ve got the
character, I think you’ve got the brains, and I think you’ve got your
feet on the ground.” Then she added for prudence’ sake, “You’ll never be
more clever than you are now, you know that I hope? That’s the mistake
most young people make. They think they’re _clever for their age_, my
God!”

Annabelle looked scared. “The mind ceases to develop before one is
twenty, is that what you mean?” she said.

“Twenty?” Polly was greatly entertained. “You’ll be lucky if you get to
twenty undisturbed. My father didn’t hold with educating girls so I’m
not very up in these things, but I always understood that the idea of
education was to get one’s mind as sharp as it will come before the
party starts. Once the heart gets going you need all the wits you’ve
got, my goodness.”

She was not looking at her visitor but she was aware of her stiffening.
The deer was emerging, she thought, timid and curious at the forest’s
edge. She ventured to be more explicit.

“I was never out of love myself after I was twelve,” she announced
cheerfully. “At fifteen I nearly died of it. He came to the local
theatre for a week and he looked so neglected, with his green tights
runkled round his ankles, that I cried whenever I thought of it. On the
Friday he came into our bar and I saw that he had a great blue nose and
was sixty if he was a day. Even that didn’t quite put me off.”

She was still looking at the fireplace and not wholly laughing.

“I thought that if he would only notice me I could cure him, you know,”
she added devastatingly.

Her audience exploded. “There were girls like that at school,” she said.
“What happens to them? Do they ever get over it?”

“I don’t know.” Polly looked so lugubrious that they both laughed and
Annabelle gave in.

“I’ve been in love myself,” she said primly, “but not as bad as that.”

“Ah.” Polly pounced on the admission. “Who? The parson, perhaps?”

“Good heavens no. He’s got grandchildren and makes sheep’s noises in
church.”

“Not mistresses at school?”

“No. They don’t count.” It became evident that Annabelle was thinking
round for a suitable candidate. “There’s Richard, of course.”

“Not nearly good enough!” Mrs. Tassie succeeded in checking the words in
time. She made a sincere effort to be reasonable.

“And who is Richard?”

Her visitor was ready to chatter. After a careful biographical sketch, a
minute physical description, and a somewhat arbitrary delineation of
character, she came to the heart of the matter.

“When he was in love with Jenny I was breathlessly keen on him,” she
admitted, looking so like a Greuze that Polly was startled. “But I was
young then, and nobody suspected. I did feel it terribly, though. I
thought he was the only person in the world and that I’d lost him. Then
he went into the army and I forgot him and I didn’t see him again until
this morning.”

“Really?”

“I asked him to meet me, you see, because I’d never been alone in London
before. Naturally I was rather interested but when he arrived he was
only an ordinary boy. Quite a nice one. I’ll have to look him up, by the
way. Will that be all right?”

“We’ll invite him on Sunday.” Polly tried not to sound as if she was
preparing for an enemy. “What do you like about him? Do you know?”

Annabelle considered earnestly, seeking for the exact truth no doubt.

“The back of his neck, I think,” she admitted at last.

“Oh dear,” said Mrs. Tassie. She paused and added, “Twenty-two, you say?
And in Tea?”

“You said that as if it meant three feet high and half-witted. He’s not
terribly tall, as a matter of fact, but he moves awfully well.”

“Well, we’ll see.” Polly was irritated with herself for feeling
irritated. “You’ve never thought you’d like to marry someone older and
more exciting ... more difficult?”

To her horror the innocent eyes turned towards her with the awful
seriousness of an intelligent baby.

“Oh.” The tone told her nothing. “Someone like that fair man who stopped
the siren for me this morning?”

There was a brief and startled silence during which the older woman’s
cheeks grew slowly red. She opened her mouth to speak but was saved,
literally, by the bell. A distinctive buzz from the front door surprised
them both.

“Who on earth is that?”

Annabelle rose at once. “I’ll go and see.” Her pink mouth widened
uncontrollably and her eyes narrowed with mischief. “Suitors perhaps,
Aunt Polly.”




Chapter 9

THE VISITORS


Polly stood in the studio in the garden, a bright neat figure surrounded
by all her formidable junk. She was smiling at Charlie Luke engagingly.

“What do you _want_?” she demanded unexpectedly. “I’ve shown you all
Freddy’s old rubbish and I’ve told you there’s nothing else like it in
the house, and yet here you are growing more and more depressed while I
watch you. What’s the matter?”

Luke’s dark face with its strong nose and narrow dancing eyes split into
a smile.

“I’m ungrateful,” he agreed. “That’s right. It’s a staggering show. Your
husband must have been ...” he hesitated.

“Very fond of it,” she said firmly. “You don’t want to shut it, do you?
It’s not doing any harm.”

“None in the world.” He looked round once more, a spark of laughter in
his eyes. “It’s old fashioned, out of the ordinary and highly
educational. No, I don’t want to shut it.”

She sighed with relief and her glance travelled down the room to where
Mr. Campion and Annabelle were enjoying the usual first conversation
among people of their kind, an exploratory expedition part genealogical,
part geographical, concerning mutual friends in the country. Polly was
glad the child was there to take the pale affable stranger out of her
way. Luke belonged to a type who was more to her taste.

“Well then, what is it?” As she spoke she touched his sleeve and was
aware of the steel muscle beneath it. He was treating her, too, with the
direct knowing intelligence which she had always liked in a man.

“I was looking for some waxworks,” he said, turning to her.

“Looking for them?” He did not quite understand the nuance in her tone,
but her face was placid enough. “What a pity,” she added sincerely. “I
had two, but they’ve gone. They were in that case there.”

“How long ago?”

“Oh, they were here last winter. They were thrown out at
spring-cleaning. Why?”

Luke did not reply immediately. He had known in his bones that Picot and
Bullard were going to be right, the moment he had put his nose in the
hall. His secret hope had been that the waxworks were going to turn out
to be nothing at all like the waiter’s description, so that the tea-shop
theory could be raised again, but as soon as he saw the empty seat in
the glass case his heart misgave him. He knew that three of the flags on
his map would have to come down.

He took a packet of frayed papers out of his pocket and consulted the
original description which he already knew by heart.

“Can you remember these things Mrs. Tassie?”

“Of course I can. We had them for years. An old man and an old woman in
Victorian costume.”

“Fancy-dress?” His eagerness puzzled her yet set her mind at rest. At
any rate he did not seem to be worrying about what had happened to them.
She did not want to have to tell a lie.

“I couldn’t call it fancy-dress, exactly. The clothes were old
fashioned, but you could have gone out in the street in them. The old
lady had a red dress and a shepherd’s plaid stole and a round bonnet in
black silk which had gone a bit brown, but it had lovely beads on it
just like the newest idea.”

“What colour were they?”

“Oh, black.” She spoke with complete authority and the Superintendent
did not look up.

“What about the man?”

“Well, he was the real trouble.” She appeared embarrassed. “He was
dropping to bits. His head was respectable because long ago, when his
long beard got awful, Freddy had him out and cut it into a tidy round,
and he had his hard hat cleaned and reblocked at the same time. But last
year I noticed that the suit really had gone. It was black turned green
and the moth had got it. I half wondered if I ought to put him in a pair
of Freddy’s trousers but I couldn’t bring myself to. It seemed so
shocking. Do you see what I mean?”

“I do.” Luke put away his packet of notes and sighed. He was bitterly
disappointed. The description tallied. The witness had made a silly but
commonplace mistake. “I do. Once the moth appears, far better to chuck
the lot out. Well, Ma’am, thank for your information.”

Polly wavered. Her eyes were anxious and she moistened her lips with the
tip of her tongue.

“Ought you to have seen them? Was it important? Does it matter that
they’ve gone?”

Luke smiled at her. The police have a technique with the useful but not
unnaturally inquisitive householder.

“No,” he said cheerfully. “It was a question of satisfying my own mind.
People who give evidence sometimes make mistakes. A chap who sees some
people we’re interested in--through the window of a ’bus, for
instance--can be reminded subconsciously of somebody else, say an
actress on the screen. So when he comes to make his deposition to us he
gives us all sorts of details, clothes, expression, everything. But the
person he’s describing may be the woman on the screen, not the one whom
he only saw for a moment in the ’bus. It’s a thing we have to look out
for all the time.”

“I see,” she said gravely. “And you thought something like that had
happened with my waxworks? Were you right?”

“I’m afraid we were,” he admitted, grimacing at her. “Our witness must
have come in here one day when they were here. He made the mistake quite
innocently. They always do.”

Polly shook her head. “It means all your work is wasted, I suppose?” She
sounded as worried all of a sudden as he felt, he reflected wryly.

“It happens.”

“Oh, I know.” She was deeply sympathetic. “When we had our hotel Freddy
and I had a very good friend, County Superintendent Gooch. He’d be quite
twenty years older than you and it was up north so I don’t suppose
you’ve heard of him, but he told me that police work was like growing
seed. For every quarter ounce you got you had to sift a bushel of
chaff.”

“Ah, he was a member all right!” Luke’s heart went out to the northern
practitioner and the old woman smiled at his warmth.

“Dick Gooch was a kind man,” she remarked. “He taught me one or two very
useful little hints, I remember.”

Luke’s quick eyes met her own inquisitively. He liked her, she was his
sort, he reflected.

“Such as what?” he murmured. “The tidy dose of chloral in a rowdy’s
half-pint?”

Polly’s brows rose into croquet hoops.

“Shush. That’s not a thing to mention even in fun.” She spoilt the
effect immediately by adding in a lower tone, “It’s a very useful thing
to know, though, if a woman does happen to be left alone in charge of
licensed premises at any time. They sleep very peacefully and nobody is
any the wiser.”

Luke controlled a shout of laughter. She was restoring his temper.

“Did you ever have to use it, Ma’am?”

“Certainly not, Superintendent,” said she and they both laughed, and,
turning away from the empty showcase, made a move to join the other two.

Annabelle was talking, her country colour glowing, her face animated.
Charlie Luke leaned towards his new friend.

“You’ve got a knock-out there, Ma’am, if I may say so. Your niece, or
your husband’s?”

He expected her to be delighted and she was.

“Oh, Freddy’s,” she whispered back. “Such a nice child, too. Not in the
least conceited. I’ve only known her for a day, but I love her already.”

“A day?” He paused to stare at her. She was not looking at him but
continued placidly.

“I invited the elder sister but she couldn’t be spared, so they sent
this one. Only this morning. But she’s very like Freddy. The same
temperament and the same common sense. He and I got on like a house on
fire from the moment we met. Some people make friends like that. They
do or they don’t in the first ten minutes.”

Luke grinned. He found her soothing. She restored his self-confidence.

“And you’re one of the ones,” he suggested.

She beamed at him. “And so are you,” she declared, startling him, “and
it’s a very funny thing to find in a policeman. It must be very awkward
at times. Still, you’re tough and I suppose you can take it. Now is it
too early for a drink, or can I offer you some tea?”

They had just reached the others and Luke shook his head. Annabelle was
full of news.

“Mr. Campion’s wife is Amanda Fitton, Aunt Polly,” she announced. “We
know her sister at home. She lives in almost the next village. And you,”
she added joyfully, turning to Luke, “you must be the man who married
Prunella last year. Will you give her my regards, please? She’ll
remember me, Annabelle Tassie.”

“Only last year?” Polly pounced on the information and regarded the
Superintendent with a new and to him terrifying enlightenment. She
closed her lips at once but as she let her visitors out of the garden
door she shook his hand and wished him good luck very earnestly, so that
he had no doubt at all to what she referred. She made him laugh even
while she embarrassed him, a human old party if ever he saw one.

Mr. Campion did not follow Luke immediately but lingered for a moment or
two chatting to Annabelle. He was dithering slightly in the way which
those who had cause to know him best might have found a little sinister.
His pale face was as vacuous as in his youth and his eyes were lazy
behind their spectacles.

“It’s such a jolly neighbourhood, don’t you think?” he was saying
earnestly as he waved an idle hand which took in the hideous studio
behind them and the so-far unrestored tenement house opposite.

“Jolly?” Annabelle, who was literal minded, sounded dubious, and Polly,
her smile still happy from her encounter with Luke, sailed in to the
rescue.

“It’s been good in its time,” she agreed, “and people are
re-discovering it and painting it up, which is always exciting.”

“Of course it is. And so convenient. So near the shops.”

It was Polly’s turn to be astonished. To her mind, the hardwear shops at
the Barrow Road corner of Edge Street were hardly the kind to attract
him.

“Well, I find them useful,” she said, “naturally. But they’re not very
posh. One would hardly buy clothes here, or....”

“Oh I say, wouldn’t you? Not some things? I mean to say ...” The
stranger appeared to be wrestling with the conversational subject as if
it was a wet sheet which had fallen on him. “I understand there’s a
magnificent store somewhere down here called Cuppage’s, famous for its
sales and for men’s gloves. Is that true? Have you ever bought men’s
gloves in a sale at Cuppage’s, Mrs. Tassie? As a present, I mean,
not--not to wear of course. S--silly of me.”

The involved stuttering speech was sufficiently long to permit the words
to register and Polly stood stiffly, her head slightly on one side and
her indulgent smile fading. From behind his spectacles Mr. Campion
observed her with interest and saw first astonishment and then
incredulity, followed by a flicker of instantly suppressed alarm, appear
and vanish on her kindly face. When she bade him goodbye she was on
guard.

Luke had waited a yard or two down the street for him and now they
walked toward the corner together to pick up the police car which had
been parked discreetly just around it. Luke seemed disposed to
apologise, if strictly in his own way.

“I’m Charlie Muggins in person,” he remarked. “I know it and I don’t
want to hear any more about it. Wherever the Goff’s Place Beauty is,
he’s not in that chamber of horrors. That’s one item we can enter in the
book and sign for.”

“You think so?”

“Don’t you?” Something in the light voice had made Luke turn to stare,
his arched brows rising high. “That old girl was on the up and up, and
the dummies she described were clearly wearing the clothes which our
witness had in mind.”

“Oh yes, I agree.” Mr. Campion conveyed that those were not quite the
lines on which he was thinking. “A pleasant woman,” he continued
cautiously, “but with one peculiarity which might be significant in the
circumstances, or so I thought, didn’t you?”

“No,” said Charlie Luke, who was irritated with himself. “Since you ask
me, chum, no. I’m satisfied that I’ve been led up Garden Green as far as
Goff’s Place is concerned. I admit it and when I get back I may possibly
go in and tell old Yeo so, just to see his happy smile. You can take it
from me that there isn’t anything that isn’t dead ordinary about that
woman. The world is packed with old ducks just like her. There’s
millions of ’em, all born on a Friday, loving and giving. What’s
peculiar about Aunt Polly, for God’s sake?”

Mr. Campion hesitated. “I was thinking of her museum,” he said. “To keep
up a nuisance of a place like that, which she doesn’t think is funny, as
a memorial to a man who was delighted with it, argues that she loved him
in a particular way. She identified herself with him.”

“Okay.” Luke was splendidly unimpressed. “There’s no need to get a
trick-cyclist approach to that one. That’s how uncomplicated people do
love. They gang up. I’m you, you’re me, that’s the big idea, so what?”

“_So where is the rest of the family?_” said Mr. Campion simply.

It was a convincing point. Luke pushed his hat on to the back of his
head and walked along considering.

“She’s bound to have someone to be fond of, I grant you that,” he said
at last, “or she wouldn’t be standing up. The girl has only been there a
day so it can’t be her. The old lady must have friends, obviously. You
think she’s mothering something, do you?”

“I don’t know at all.” The thin man shrugged his shoulders. “No one’s
living in the house. She may have many interests. I got the impression
that there were several people in and out didn’t you?”

Luke frowned. “A coke hod in the kitchen was standing on an old copy of
_Sports Motor_ and there was a cigar butt among the London Pride edging
the little path to the front door. There was an overall too big for her
hanging in the scullery, and someone had left a bunch of watercress on
the kitchen window-ledge,” he recited casually. “Yes, of course there
are people about her or she wouldn’t be as she is, but no, Campion, our
chap can’t be amongst them. The witness who saw the old folk in the ’bus
happened to confuse them with the waxworks in her museum. That’s
sufficient. If the murderer was known to her as well, the coincidence
would be amazing.”

Mr. Campion drew a long breath. “There is one possible explanation of
that point,” he was beginning when they turned the corner and Luke’s
wireless operator sprang out of the car and came towards them, a written
message in his outstretched hand. The Superintendent glanced at it and
turned to his friend with sudden energy.

“This is more like it,” he exclaimed joyfully. “This is what we’ve been
waiting for. They’re fairly certain they’ve got the ’bus. It’s been
hidden for eight months behind a bargeload of empty oildrums. Hop in old
boy. We’ll drop in to the office for the full gen and then we’ll slip
down and inspect it. It’s in a square mile of scrap called Rolf’s Dump.
Ever heard of it?”




Chapter 10

THE OBJECT OF THE EXERCISE


“So tea is served to residents only? My dear man, we _are_ residents.
Our baggage is coming up from the airport. That is why we are sitting
here waiting. Run along, do. We’re tired. We’ve come a very very long
way. We want crumpets, and for God’s sake see the butter is fresh. Cake,
Richard? No? Very well then, tea and crumpets.”

The man in the trench coat stretched himself in the deep brocade-covered
chair and waved an impatient hand at the ancient waiter, who plodded
away mumbling.

“This old place has got the kiss of death written all over it, but it’s
useful,” he continued, looking round the dim lounge of the Tenniel Hotel
and keeping his voice down as people do in a huge public room in which
they find themselves virtually alone. “The lease is just running out and
it’s going to be pulled down to make way for Government offices. But
meanwhile it’s quiet and reasonably civilised.”

Richard, who was sitting on a couch beside him, followed his gaze with
open disapproval. To his mind the place was a tomb and, worse, an
anachronism. He fancied he could smell the dust in the pile carpet
patterned with fleur-de-lys, and one corner of the high ceiling, the
cornice of which was as elaborate as a wedding cake, was badly
discoloured where some mishap to the plumbing had done its worst.

Gerry’s elaborate lie to get the unwanted tea had annoyed him and he was
also puzzled. His guide had insisted that they should sit just here in
the centre of the longest wall, although there was apparently no other
visitor in the place. Richard could see no purpose in the decision
unless it was part of a manœuvre, in which case, as seemed more and more
probable at every moment, he felt he was liable to find himself involved
in something very dubious very soon. The only real advantage in the
position appeared to be that they had a direct view across some forty
feet of lounge, through an archway, down a white-painted corridor, and
into the side vestibule of the hotel through which they had entered.
From where he sat Richard could make out the row of telephone booths
there, at this distance no larger then so many dolls’ houses.

“Are we waiting for somebody?” he enquired suddenly.

The flat expressionless eyes of the man beside him opened very wide.

“Good heavens no. Why?”

“I wondered. I thought you told Edna you had a date at half past.”

Gerry ducked his chin. “That? Oh I had to be definite or we’d never have
got away. You fell for her, did you? She’s got something, God knows
quite what, but a certain something.”

Richard coloured and his jaw became more aggressive even than usual, but
he stuck to his shy, slightly off-hand manner.

“She seemed to know you pretty well.”

“But not well enough, dear boy.” Gerry produced the archaic form of
address with a flourish. “I saw quite a bit of her at one time and she
played hard enough for me, but it never took, as they say of
inoculation. I was damned careful it shouldn’t. That’s the secret of my
success.”

“What is?”

“I never let anything tear the skin. I’ve never been faintly fond of
anything or of anybody in my life.” He spoke lightly but with
satisfaction. “I’m deadly serious about this. I spotted the plain
mechanical truth of it as a child. You could almost call it the
Chad-Horder discovery. Any kind of affection is a solvent. It melts and
adulterates the subject and by indulging it he loses his identity and
hence his efficiency. By keeping myself to myself in the face of every
conceivable attack I have remained successful, bright and
indestructible. It’s a simple recipe for a hundred per cent success. I
hand it to you gratis, Richard. Consider it a token of my esteem. Ah,
here are the crumpets.”

They arrived cold and slightly burnt and soggy, in an Edwardian
white-metal contraption which should have contained hot water and did
not. Gerry did not appear to notice any fault worth commenting upon. He
poured tea from a plated pot, sent the mutinous waiter, a black-browed
toad in the seventies, labouring back for lemon, and appeared to enjoy
himself hugely.

He was revealing a personality with a faint but positive streak of
conventionality, which was unexpected, but now more than ever Richard
was aware of the strong element of deliberation in him which he had
first noticed in the barber’s shop. He was going about some business,
conducting some carefully considered undertaking which, Richard felt
uncomfortably, was going according to plan. How he himself was supposed
to figure in the performance Richard had no idea, and it occurred to him
that it might be as well to find out, but before he could make any move
in that direction he was forestalled by Gerry, who might have been
thought-reading.

“I tell you what I have in mind for this evening and I don’t want any
refusal,” he began suddenly, with an engaging air of frankness. “I’ve
been hanging on to you like a leech all this afternoon and you’re not
going to escape me now. This is the position. I live in a rather decent
little residential hotel, Lydaw Court, Kensington, and they’ve got a
party on tonight. There is, as usual, a preponderance of women and I’ve
promised I’ll bring a young man to partner some of the girls. Don’t
worry, my dear chap, we shan’t be expected to change, but I can offer
you a decent meal and very nice company, and you’d be doing a most
charitable act. How about it?”

Richard blinked. The offer possessed a curious quality of conviction.
Suddenly he was quite certain that the man did live in just such a place
as he described and that he himself had been picked out as a likely
candidate for the invitation, even as far back as their encounter in the
barber’s shop.

Meanwhile Gerry had produced a visiting card.

“We may as well be formal,” he remarked deprecatingly. “Never mind if
you haven’t one on you. Where do you live, by the way?”

Richard gave the number of his Chelsea lodgings and watched the other
man write it down in a small notebook neat as a stage prop, which he
replaced very carefully in his inside breast pocket. Something slightly
extraordinary about the movement caught Richard’s attention. Gerry had
held the side of his trench coat and the edge of his jacket together
when he reached for the pocket, so that no glimpse of the inner garment
appeared. There was nothing wrong about the performance; it was merely
odd, and Richard was reminded of how he had removed the two coats
together and put them on again in the same way in Mr. Vick’s shop. The
card was engraved and read:

                    Mr. Jeremy Chad-Horder
            Lydaw Court Hotel
            Kensington, W.8.

He looked at it for a moment and glanced up.

“I thought you said you’d left this place,” he observed bluntly.

“That’s right. I told Edna so.” Once again the shamefaced laughing
apology flickered over the lantern face. “Something had to be done.
Frankly that was why I drifted in there today. Our receptionist at Lydaw
Court is an extremely decent woman and very useful to me. She’s been
getting fed to the teeth. Edna has been pestering her, ringing up at all
hours of the day. The poor woman told her I was out sixty-three times in
a week. She made a note of it. It was getting absurd.”

Richard sat looking at him, his young face inscrutable.

“So Edna’s letters weren’t hanging about in the vestibule?”

“Good God, of course they weren’t. That _would_ have been dangerous. I
said that to discourage her.” He began to laugh. “How romantic you are,”
he said. “I rather like it. It’s old world. Let me see, Edna is about
eleven years older than you. That’s as it should be. You’re the age to
have chivalrous instincts and she’s the age to work hard to evoke them.
Oh well, if you insist we’ll wander back to the Midget after I’ve made a
’phone call.”

The offer constituted such an extraordinary _volte-face_ that the young
man gaped at him and at once a hint of caution appeared in the flat
eyes and the suggestion was withdrawn at once.

“On second thoughts, please not,” he said. “I couldn’t bear it. Besides,
the food at the old Lydaw is really exceptional when they make the
effort, and oh boy will they be trying tonight! That’s settled then, is
it? Waiter!”

The old waiter, who was resting his weight surreptitiously on a gilt and
marble console on the further wall, detached himself reluctandy,
ploughed forward, and stood lowering. Gerry smiled at him.

“Some more of your excellent crumpets. Hot, this time and not quite so
black round the edges.”

The ancient face remained expressionless.

“For two, sir?”

“Certainly for two. I see no more of us, do you? For two only.”

“None for me,” said Richard hastily.

“Oh but you’ve got to. I’m going to telephone a girl I know and I may be
hours. You must have something to amuse you while I’m down there in the
box.”

“I’ll go on drinking tea.”

“Will you? Oh, very well. Bring some more tea, waiter, and no crumpets.
No crumpets to sound for us on the other side. Off you go.”

He leant back in his chair and glanced at his watch.

“I must go and call up my poppet in the wilds.” He took a handful of
change and a ten-shilling note from his trouser pocket and looked at it.
“The only thing against this lovely gal is that she lives deep in the
shires, and the charge for a three-minute call down there is three
shillings and seven-pence,” he remarked as he began to sort the coins in
his hand. “She will certainly expect six minutes chit-chat from me, and
because she is really quite something I may feel like continuing even
after that. The ’phone boxes here are normal and work on the principle
of the coin in the slot, therefore I shall require nine separate
shillings, three sixpences and three pence. From you, Richard, I require
two separate shillings and a tanner for half a crown. Can you do it?”

It took them a minute or two to make the little adjustment and by the
time the fresh tea arrived the three small columns of coins were
arranged on the table. Gerry took up the teapot and chattered briskly as
the waiter’s gloomy presence moved away once more.

“What an evil-eyed old drear,” he observed. “He’ll remember me, won’t
he? He loves me not. Don’t get me wrong about this girl, by the way.
I’ve not been captured. It’s just that she’s delectable, lusciously
young, and she’s fallen for me and so ...” he peered at his watch again,
“and so I humour her. Well now, it is a quarter to six.”

“Is it?” Richard was astonished. He felt his own naked wrist and glanced
round for a clock. Gerry displayed his forearm with a good Swiss watch
upon it.

“There you are,” he said. “On the dot. She’ll have just come in. My God,
Richard, you should see her. She’s extraordinary. Lovely. Very smooth
golden-brown hair, cut so that it just brushes her tweed collar.
Enormous grey eyes and a perfect skin. She can’t be out of her teens and
she looks edible. Wait here for me, old boy. As you know, I just haven’t
got the money to be more than ten minutes. There are the ’phone boxes,
see? Down there in the hall at the end of the corridor. You can keep me
under your eye all the time.”

He sprang up, gathered the change from the table, and strode across the
vast room, getting smaller and smaller as he passed down the long
passage to the vestibule. Just before he reached it he turned and waved
his hand and saw Richard raise his own and settle back in his seat.

After that point in distance it was not really possible for any normally
sighted person to pick out much detail from either direction, although
the two figures were still visible to each other, or would have been had
either been watching. As it was Richard saw the man he knew as Jeremy
Chad-Horder bearing down upon the telephone booths, glanced away for a
moment and lost sight of him. Not unnaturally he assumed he had entered
one of them.

In fact the man in the trench coat had approached the line of booths and
had walked along swiftly beside it as if he were seeking one which was
unoccupied. When he came to the last of the line, which was out of sight
of the mouth of the corridor, he turned smartly round behind it and
stepped out of the small doorway normally used by hotel servants
bringing in luggage, and which flanked the canopied side entrance.

Outside it was neither dark nor light, but at that brief twilit stage
when London’s sky, streets and buildings appear all to be draped in
different shades of blue, and the newly-lit lamps and the sidelights of
the traffic are yellow and inadequate against the fast vanishing
daylight. It was also the rush hour and the man in the trench coat
melted into the wave of home-going workers like a drop into the sea.

Gerry moved quickly and with that complete lack of hesitation which he
had displayed as he had prepared Richard’s mind for his telephone call.
Never once did he falter or make an unnecessary step, but carried out
the entire operation with the smooth efficiency of a dance routine on
the stage.

All central London is covered by a network of small rights of way which
can make moving about in it remarkably simple to anyone who has taken
the trouble to work out his route. By making use of a mews, a furniture
shop with a back entrance, and a passage kept open by ancient custom to
give access to a no longer useful pump, Gerry reached the Lagonda parked
where he and Richard had left it in something under two minutes.

As he had expected, the long car was now almost alone in the cobbled
lane and lay deep in the shadow cast by the steep sides of the dark
houses which lined it. He walked over to it and unlocked the boot, to
take out the box, the rope, and a worn ex-Army beret which was lying
under them. This last he put on at once, and, taking off his trench
coat, locked it away. Finally, after tightening his muffler, he turned
up the collar of his jacket and buttoned that double-breasted garment up
to his chin.

His next move was extraordinary but it was made so casually that even
had there been a watcher it must have passed unnoticed in the uncertain
light. Leaning over the back of the car where he had rested the box, he
ran first one hand and then the other along the running board, and as he
straightened himself he rubbed his face with his dirty hands. At last
he took up the rope and shook it out, revealing it as a loop carefully
knotted. This he placed round his neck where it hung halfway to his
knees, lifted the box into the sling it made, and set off down the lane
in the direction opposite to the Midget Club.

He came out into Minton Terrace in a matter of seconds and the overhead
lights of the traffic way showed the remarkable change in his
appearance.

The heavy duty van delivery man is a familiar figure in modern London
and is one of the very few workers whose trade still dictates a
distinctive dress. While his shoes and trousers are as respectable as
his pay packet, his jacket, which receives most of the wear, is liable
to be torn out in a matter of days. He is apt, therefore, to wear old
secondhand garments which can easily degenerate into picturesque rags by
the end of the week.

No one who glanced at Gerry as he shouldered his way across the pavement
could have thought there was anything strange about him, yet his navy
chalk-striped jacket had been made for a bigger man and was oilstained
and ragged, the elbows out and padding protruding from the shoulder
where the sleeve was coming away.

The beret, which completely covered his distinctive hair, was dusty, and
his face was dirty enough to be virtually unrecognisable. The rope sling
gave him a professional air and the rough wooden box was typical of
millions. Above all, his manner was convincing. Every movement he made,
every line in his taut body, and the impatient half-whistle from between
his teeth, were calculated to convey to one and all that he was late,
that shops and offices were closing, and that somewhere in the gloom his
van was waiting, its driver swearing in its cab.

His performance was particularly convincing as he came bounding up the
stone steps of Number 24, Minton Terrace. This was a very fine block of
offices built in the florid style of the early years of this century.
The carved walnut door stood open and the moderate sized entrance hall,
with its white marble floor, Turkey carpet and elderly commissionaire
dozing in his hooded hall-porter’s chair, was bright and busy as the
little gilt lift travelled up and down serving the home-going staffs
from the upper floors.

The offices of Messrs. Southern, Wood and Phillipson occupied the whole
of the basement floor, but they closed at five and the staircase which
ran down behind the lift was deserted.

As Gerry strode across the hall towards this well, no one appeared in
his path. At the top of the stairs he paused to drag a small ragged
receipt book from his left side pocket and dropped the wooden box on to
the marble for a moment while he looked for it. The box hit the stone
with the vicious double crash of a pistol shot, a savage noise which
seemed to epitomise the roughness of the rôle he was playing. At any
rate, the old commissionaire, although he frowned helplessly at the
clatter, made no attempt to admonish him.

Having found, apparently, the necessary receipt form, Gerry lifted the
box again and rattled down the stone staircase with it, still whistling
between his teeth.

The small passage below was not very well lit and contained only two
mahogany doors both of which bore the name of Mr. Matthew Phillipson’s
firm. The newcomer lowered his box very gently on to the ground beside
the first of them, replaced the receipt book in his left pocket and
thrust a hand deep into the right one. When it came out again it was
holding a gun.

There was a bell on the door and he pressed it with his elbow and nipped
the knocker with the nose of the weapon, so that it fell noisily. The
breathy whistle through his teeth did not cease.

The right time, but not by the watch he had shown Richard, was half past
five exactly. From somewhere behind the heavy door there was a thin
tinkle of chimes and the man with the gun at the ready waited.
Apparently he was without any emotion.

As the door opened and old Matt Phillipson’s face appeared, still
wearing the contented expression from his encounter with Polly, Gerry
fired carefully and once again the distinctive noise, as of a heavy
wooden box falling upon a polished stone floor, a sound as sharp and
violent as a pistol shot, echoed up the well of the staircase.

Gerry did not close the door, but, bending swiftly over the old man, he
thrust his hand into the inside breast pocket and drew out the plump
black wallet hidden there. Then he swung the box up into his arms again
and stamped up the staircase with it.

All the time he was listening for a hue and cry behind him, but there
was none. As he had hoped, Mr. Phillipson had kept his bargain and had
waited alone.

As Gerry reached the hall the lift came down and he was swept out of the
building amid a flurry of young girls, typists from the pool on the top
floor.

There was no need for him to explain the fact that he still carried the
box, for the old commissionaire was surrounded and not looking at him,
but his original plan had contained cover for this point and he did not
alter it. From first to last he behaved as what he so nearly was, a
well-trained animal without imagination or moral sense, and it was
probably because of that that he aroused no instinctive alarm in the
crowds through which he pressed. There was no danger signal from him, no
smell of fear.

As he reached the doorway he peered out into the misty shadows and
bellowed to his non-existent van driver.

“Wrong ’ouse, mate! Try the Square.”

He plunged out into the throng. Despite the crowds he reached the mouth
of the alley in nine seconds and was beside the car, now in considerably
deeper shadow than before, in a further ten. It took him four minutes to
lock the box away, rearrange his jacket and scarf, put on his trench
coat, and scrub his face with a couple of clean handkerchiefs. There was
no outcry from Minton Terrace, no sound of police whistles. Presently he
was not even out of breath.

He had reckoned on it taking him an extra two minutes to get back to the
Tenniel, because the furniture shop would now be closed and that short
cut denied him, but in the narrow street which was his alternative route
he passed behind an open truck held up by the lights and he threw the
looped rope in the back of it. He was still holding his beret rolled up
in his hand. There was nothing upon it to distinguish it in any way but
he had planned to get rid of it, and because the exact method of doing
this had not been worked out he was worried out of all proportion by the
little problem now that it arose. He had been alone in the pump passage
but had not dared to drop the cap there, and came out into the street
again still holding it. Finally the matter was solved for him. Half a
dozen yards before the turning leading to the long slope up to the
Tenneil a dog appeared in his path. It was a big yellow animal with a
large benign face and a long waving tail, who had been let out for brief
personal reasons from one of the blocks of luxury flats further down the
hill. It came up to him and he stooped to pat it, thought better of the
impulse and offered it the beret instead. To his surprise and secret
relief it took it promptly and galloped away with it into the gloom.

Gerry strode on. He was making excellent time and already the lights of
the hotel were visible from the top of the street. He hurried and was
almost level with the door which would lead him back to the row of
telephone booths when a second unrehearsed encounter occurred. There was
a patter of light feet behind him followed by a familiar but not
instantly placeable laugh. They brought him swinging round to confront
Mr. Vick of all people, looking unexpectedly small and prosperous in a
blue Melton coat and a velvety black homburg. The barber was delighted.

“Why Major!” he cried exuberantly, “it _is_ you! What a
coin-_ci_-dence!”

Since Gerry remained silent, his face wooden, Mr. Vick hurried on.

“It’s quite a liberty, I know that,” he said, “and I hope you’ll forgive
it, but as I was only saying this very morning that I’ve known you
donkeys’ years and never seen you outside my shop, when I actually
caught sight of you just in front of me turning out of Petty
Street--well, I had to follow you all the way up the hill just to make
up my mind.”

He took a breath and stood smiling, his inquisitive eyes bright in the
lamplight.

“You’re just off to catch Mr. Moor’en I suppose?” he added wistfully.
“My word, Major, you don’t ’alf walk fast, you know.”




Chapter 11

RICHARD TO PLAY


“In t’ree weeks this ’otel will be anole in the road. I shan’t be ’ere
no more. I shall be livin’ wit’ my daughter in Saffron ’Ill. It don’t
matter to me what I tell you, see?”

The old waiter was only just intelligible and had Richard known more
about London he would have guessed that he was listening to a local
dialect rather than a foreign accent, inasmuch as the man had no other
tongue and had never had any other home.

To look at he was remarkably like a toad and moved with some of that
pleasant creature’s spry difficulty. At the moment he was bending
sideways at the tea table, leaning heavily on his hand. His dark-skinned
face flecked with little black patches was tired with the wear of a
lifetime and he spoke to the boy like some comically allegorical figure
of Age talking to Youth--hurriedly, timidly, and out of the corner of
his mouth.

“If ’e should come back I’ll give ’im your message if you say so,” he
went on furtively, “but I shouldn’t leave no message. I shouldn’t say
you waited no hour for ’im. You’ve just met ’im today, ’ave you?”

“Well yes, I have as a matter of fact.” Richard was exasperated with
himself, principally for not being much older and more informed. His
vivid blue eyes were fierce under his dark red hair and the old man
looked away nervously and flicked at a crumb on the table with his
napkin.

“’E told you I would know ’im again,” he muttered presently. “Did you
’ear that? I don’ think you did. When I was a young man I wouldn’t ’ave
’eard it, but now being old I did and I thought.” He coughed. “You
un’erstand now, don’ you?”

“Not entirely,” said Richard frankly. “Have you seen him before?”

The waiter looked round with elaborate casualness but there was not a
soul in sight in the vast doomed hall. All the same he lowered his voice
still further.

“’E come in yesterday, just walked round.” There seemed to be some deep
significance in this statement for he stood watching for a moment before
he tried again. “’E cased the place,” he said. “Cased it. Don’ you know
that word, sir?” Receiving no response, he became very foreign indeed.
“How you say, sur-vey for da crook.”

Crook! The familiar and likely word registered on Richard with something
like relief. But his new friend raised a protesting hand and became so
Latin as to be almost incomprehensible.

“No,” he said, “no no, I don’t know nothing about that. But don’ you
send ’im no message and when the police come and ask you if you know
where ’e was today you say no, jus’ like that. You don’t know ’im and
you don’ know ’is name, you never saw nor ’eard of ’im before. You don’
want to get mixed up with ’is troubles.”

“An alibi?” The explanation, so obvious as soon as it was pointed out to
him, startled Richard rather than astonished him. He had begun to expect
his new acquaintance to turn out to be some sort of confidence
trickster, but not to discover that he personally was being used by him
as a shield. The old waiter, who was watching his face with interest,
ventured another observation.

“’E left ’ere twenty-five minutes after five,” he remarked.

“How do you know?” Richard recalled the wristwatch held out for his
inspection and the repeated insistence that the time was a quarter to
six.

The waiter’s grey face split into a gap-toothed smile and he jerked his
thumb towards the tall archway in the wall behind them.

“I ’ear the glasses,” he explained. “Bar opens ’alf-past five.”

“I see.” Richard ran an absent-minded finger round his collar. It was
patently obvious that for some reason of his own Gerry had thought it
important to have some completely disinterested person to vouch for him
during the twenty minutes between five twenty-five and a quarter to
six. The more Richard thought about it the more uncomfortable he felt,
for he realised that had the man returned from the telephone booth after
any reasonable interval the chances were that he would have been tricked
into answering for him. “He hasn’t been out of my sight since this
morning.” He could hear himself saying it.

“Why didn’t he come back?” He spoke aloud and the old man shrugged his
shoulders.

“Who knows?” he enquired with magnificent sophistication. “Maybe t’ings
don’ go too well. Maybe some feller bolts a door ’e don’t usually bolt,
or some cashier girl stays on too late at the office waiting for a
friend. Maybe ’e jus’ runs into someone ’oo knows ’im and ’oo could say
’e’s seen ’im outside this ’otel when ’e ought to have been inside it
telephoning. Anyt’ing. You go off and enjoy yourself. Forget ’im. You
don’ know ’im no more.”

Richard laughed. Had it not been for the one uncomfortable fact that
Gerry had appeared so remarkably at home in the house which had
swallowed Annabelle, the advice would have suited him perfectly. As it
was, he paid the bill, assured the old man of his gratitude, tipping him
sufficiently to convey sincerity, and went along to the telephones
himself.

To his relief he found Mrs. Tassie’s number without any difficulty and
was surprised to hear such a warm comfortable voice answering him. The
moment he heard her he began to feel that his terrors were silly. It was
such an ordinary voice, a little fluttered because a young man was
asking to speak to a girl, but sounding not even sophisticated, much
less sinister. It belonged to a different world, he felt, to the one in
which he had spent the day.

Annabelle was fetched immediately and as he heard her burbling over the
wire his heart jumped, a surprising and interesting phenomenon. A little
to his chagrin she appeared to be enjoying herself enormously.

“The Aunt’s all right,” she assured him in reply to his question. “Wait
a minute. No, it’s perfectly okay. She’s being tactful. She’s gone
upstairs. She’s an old poppet, Richard, just rather lonely I expect.
She’s a bit formal though. You know, a bit as she’d been Uncle’s
girl-friend rather than his wife. Old-fashioned careful. Understand?”

“I think so. Can I come round and see you.”

“Not tonight.”

“Why?”

“I’m being taken to the movies. It’s the char’s day off and we’re eating
out.” Her eager child’s voice hesitated before rushing on again, anxious
to soothe. “I’m dying to see you and you’re going to be invited to a
meal on Sunday. You see what I mean by formal. I shall get her out of
it, of course, but it’s ingrained so it’ll take a week or two. Be ready
to accept for Sunday. Best clothes, I think, for the first time. I do so
want her to like you. I can’t ask her now because she’s a bit upset.
Some visitors came and seem to have worried her.”

“Very well.” He was trying to sound neither amused nor disappointed.
Annabelle was a sweetie. He could see that amazing new beauty of hers as
vividly as if her face were before him. For some reason it made him feel
old and careworn. “Listen,” he commanded briskly. “Before you go, tell
me, who is the man, thirtyish, fair, tall, slightly boiled eyes, face
haggard-handsome....”

“In a sort of trench coat?”

“That’s the chap. He came out of your museum gate about fifteen minutes
after you went in. Know who he is?”

“Yes. Gerry Hawker.”

“Horder?”

“No, Hawker. H-a-w-k-e-r. Think of the bird. He’s a pet of Aunt
Polly’s.”

“Is he? Does he live there?”

“_Here?_ No, of course not. He’s just someone she’s known and treated as
a sort of son for years. He lives in Reading and was passing through
London today, so he called in to see her. Why, you don’t know him, do
you?”

“No. But I saw him coming out of the house....”

Annabelle laughed contentedly. “You couldn’t possibly by straining it
have been jealous, could you? I should like that.” She made it sound a
request and he scowled at the telephone.

“I certainly couldn’t. What are you talking about? You behave
yourself.”

She sighed with mock regret. She was enjoying herself hugely, he
suspected.

“Shame. I feared you might not have fallen for me at first sight. This
is Aunt’s influence. You’ll enjoy her. She’s as romantic as a valentine.
As far as I can gather she adored her husband and wants every girl to
have the same glorious experience. I fancy she was hoping to get me off
with the Gerry person.”

“Oh God, don’t do that.”

“Of course I won’t. Don’t be silly. He must be close on thirty-five. But
I think that was the idea originally and why she was asking for the
twenty-four-year-old daughter.”

“I see,” he said slowly. “Do you expect him back this week? Before
Sunday?”

“I don’t know. Aunt Polly didn’t say. Why, what is all this? What’s the
matter with you?”

“Nothing much.” Richard’s face was hot with anxiety. “However, if you do
see him do _not_ mention my name, that is vital. Do you understand?”

“Then you do know something about him? Or does he know something about
you?”

He could feel her interest quickening.

“This is all very mysterious and sounds exciting.”

“Well, it isn’t,” he said flatly, “but I beg you to shut up about me and
to do all you can to get me asked over to see you just as soon as you
can. I’ll tell you all I know then.”

“All right. But don’t be so bossy. You needn’t worry. I’ll keep your
beastly name out of it, whatever it is.”

The unfairness was too much for his stoicism.

“It’s not me, it’s you I’m thinking about.”

“Oh, Richard, how charming.” She sounded just about as sophisticated as
a six-year-old in lipstick. “I’d call you darling if it wasn’t so old
hat. What’s wrong with the poor man? I thought he was rather a honey, if
he hadn’t been so old. Aunt Polly says she could cure age when she was
sixteen, by the way.”

“She says what?”

“Forget it. Actually that wasn’t quite fair. She didn’t mean it. I was
just making a good story. What do you know about this man Gerry? I’m
fascinated.”

“I’m not,” he said bitterly. “Shut up about him now. I’ll ring you
tomorrow.”

He hung up and stood looking at the silent instrument. As far as he
could see, the position was more than awkward and he was not at all sure
what he ought to do about it. Finally he decided to verify what facts he
had, and once more took up the directory.

The receptionist at the Lydaw Court Hotel had one of those refined yet
fruity middle-aged voices which suggested to Richard tesselated
pavements in palm courts and very-well-looked-after cane furniture with
spry old ladies and depressed young ones sitting about in it, waiting
either for a meal or bedtime.

“Mr. Chad-Horder?” She said with very much more warmth than had appeared
in her original greeting. “No, he’s not in yet, I’m afraid. We’re
expecting him at any moment now. He’s later than he said already. Can I
give him any message?”

“No, please don’t bother.” Richard was bearing in mind the old waiter’s
advice, but he was curious. Lydaw Court sounded such an odd place for a
man like Gerry to live in. “Have you a--a dance there tonight?” he added
on impulse.

“Yes, indeed we have.” The voice was archly enthusiastic. “One of our
regular Thursday evenings. Excuse me, but are you one of the gentlemen
whom Mr. Chad-Horder thought he might be able to bring?”

“No, I’m afraid I’m not. Thank you very much. Goodbye.”

“Wait.” The command was imperative. “I really must ask you to leave a
name. Mr. Chad-Horder is very particular. He will insist on knowing who
called.” At this point even she appeared to notice that the approach was
a trifle high-handed, for an embarrassed laugh escaped her. “He always
asks if there have been any calls or messages, and I do like to be able
to tell him,” she added and sounded suddenly pathetic.

Richard, who was not a natural prevaricator, looked round for
inspiration which he found in the largest type in the place, the cover
of the Directory.

“Tell him Mr. London,” he said hastily. “Only a general message. Just
that I made a call.”

He rang off and the woman in the desk at the Lydaw Court Hotel jotted
down four somewhat ominous words on her memorandum pad. “Chad-Horder.
London. General call.”

Richard came out of the booth undecided on his next move. He had found
out a little about Gerry as Chad-Horder, but almost nothing about him
when he called himself Hawker. It seemed unlikely that Edna would be of
much help, even if she were not actively unco-operative, and Torrenden,
the racing driver, sounded difficult to approach.

As he stood hesitating he suddenly remembered the starting handle and
the label upon it. Gerry had removed it but not quite quickly enough,
and Richard could see it clearly in his mind’s eye and could read the
words on it. Hawker. Rolf’s Dump.

He asked the way from a young constable on the corner outside the hotel,
who went to considerable trouble to look it up in the pocket street
directory which each man on duty carries with him.

“It’s some distance, sir,” he announced after study. “East, right round
by the Regent’s Canal. If I were you I should take a Number Seven ’bus
to Liverpool Street and ask again.”

He was a big gangling youth with squat widely spaced teeth and a
permanently anxious expression and he eyed Richard’s conventionally clad
figure dubiously before he returned again to the shaded area on the
section of the street map in the book in his hand.

“Are you sure you want to go there?” he enquired, bending a little to
show the page. “That’s it, Rolf’s Dump. There’s miles of it, see? All
along the canal. It won’t be what you might call very salubrious this
time of night.”

Richard grinned at the man. He was his own age. He wished they could
have gone together.

“I’m afraid I must get there,” he said. “Thank you very much. Do you
happen to know what sort of place it is?”

“Sorry, I can’t say. It’s in a built-up area, see, so it won’t be
noxious materials. It’s too big to be private so I think you’ll find its
parcels of scrap all owned by different dealers which are waiting there
for re-sale. The stuff would come and go by barge, I should say, on the
canal. No trouble at all, sir. Goodnight.”

Richard walked on towards the ’bus stop hoping he was not making a fool
of himself. He realised he was taking a very long chance but he decided
to press on.

Two and a half hours later, however, his mood had changed. By that time
he was convinced that he was behaving like a lunatic. The journey had
proved formidable. He had travelled by a series of ’buses far into the
East End of the city and had finished up at last in bright moonlight in
a strange flat no-man’s-land which appeared to consist of wide acres of
condemned slum houses, relieved here and there by the huge towers of the
blocks of new council dwellings, all very modern and impressive against
a limpid sky.

With considerable difficulty, and against the earnest advice of
everybody who had directed him, he had discovered the Dump at last. It
lay dark and uninviting on the other side of a fifteen-foot barrier made
partly of board and partly of wire, which lined one side of the road on
which he walked quite alone. For ten minutes now he had seen no living
soul and nothing which looked faintly like a door into the enclosure.

Fortunately it was one of those clear nights which seldom occur over
London because of the haze but are dazzling when they do. The moon was
as big as a tea-tray and its light was so strong that colours were
discernible by it, while all the shadows were ink-black, their
highlights silver. Yet even under this enchantment there was nothing
even faintly attractive about Rolf’s Dump. As far as Richard could
discover through occasional unobscured patches in the wire fence, it
consisted of a sort of moon landscape composed of mountains and craters
of unlikely objects such as truck bodies, street lamp standards, rotted
baskets, derelict machinery, cases of out-of-date tins of food, wheels,
water tanks, and a thousand other examples of waste material all
arranged in orderly masses. And beyond these he caught the gleam of a
narrow waterway. It was very quiet. The city’s roar was here reduced to
a murmur and there were very few nearer sounds.

From the middle distance he could hear the hollow crashing of a railway
and once or twice he thought he detected voices and movement from the
far end of the Dump itself. But he was not sure. He could see no lights
in that direction.

The road he walked on was extraordinary. There was not a house in it.
The buildings on the side opposite to the fence were roofless and
ruined, the filthy glass in the windows broken and ghostly in the
moonlight. They had been stables at one time, Richard thought, and now
looked like relics of an age as dead as the Pharaohs.

He stumbled on, cursing himself for an idiot, the worn stones greasy
under his feet, until unexpectedly he came upon a much broader road
running at right angles to his own and leading apparently directly into
the Dump itself. The way was barred by a pair of stout doors which were
very tall and completely black against the sky.

For a moment he thought he was defeated and was on the point of turning
away when it occurred to him that he might as well try them. He was
looking for the lock when he discovered a small postern built into the
left-hand door.

It opened to his touch and he was about to step forward when a terrier,
who was tethered just inside, sprang up barking hysterically and a
voice, also uncannily near, let out a stream of comment equally violent.

“What d’yer want?” it demanded finally.

“Mr. Hawker.” Richard was too startled to invent. The name had been in
his mind and he uttered it.

“Orl right.” The voice was lowered and had become conversational. “Shut
up, Jack! Down boy. ’E ain’t ’ere, I don’t think,” it continued. “I
didn’t ’ear ’im come in yet.”




Chapter 12

AT THE ROSE AND CROWN


At just about the same time as Richard was asking for Jeremy Hawker at
Rolf’s Dump, the man who called himself by that name when it suited him
was standing against the round bar in the Rose and Crown. This public
house stands directly behind the old Royal Albert Music Hall, a famous
vaudeville theatre before the war and later the home of lavish musical
shows. On this particular evening Morris Moorhen was appearing there in
‘Bowl Me Over’. The performance had been on for forty minutes and the
long interval was due in five.

Mr. Vick, who was standing next to Gerry, bright spots of colour on his
cheekbones and his elegant black hat well on the back of his head, was
having a much better time that anyone who merely saw the scene could
possibly have supposed. The Rose and Crown was never a place of gaiety.
Its main trade was done at lunch time and in the evening it was apt to
present an ill-lit and deserted appearance.

At the moment the only other two people in the place were behind the
bar. There was the tender, a solid youngster who looked as if he had
troubles of his own, and the manager, who was a white-faced gloomy-eyed
man, who sat aloof in an alcove built into the mahogany and
looking-glass contraption, part sideboard part office, which stood in
the centre of the bar like a hub in the centre of a wheel. He was taking
no notice of anybody but was reading an evening paper which he had
folded into a narrow strip like a harlequin’s wand.

Mr. Vick was drinking large dark glasses of unidentified sherry with a
recklessness either of ignorance or insanity, and by now he was
garrulous, affectionate, and noisy as a macaw, which he was beginning to
resemble. His drawing-room scream became more and more frequent and the
arch hero-worship which he lavished on the man in the raincoat was
mounting.

Yet the principal change which had occurred during the evening had taken
place in Gerry. In the three hours since his carefully prepared alibi
had been destroyed at the very moment of its success by the chance
meeting with the inquisitive little barber, he had altered in
appearance. His flesh seemed to be clinging more tightly to his bones.
There was a slight stiffness in his body and the muscles of his face,
while the blank expression in his flat eyes, normally infrequent, had
become almost habitual. Moreover, his normal casualness of manner had
become exaggerated, so that the barman, who was not bothering to give
serious consideration to the matter, would have sworn off-hand that he
was the more drunk of the two.

This was an assumption which could not have been more wrong. By pleading
that he was driving, Gerry had avoided alcohol all the evening and had
achieved an icy sobriety in which his mind was working with unusual
clarity. He had arranged many alibis in his life. It was part of his
nature to be careful. So far he had never needed one. But always they
had been there, like safety nets, ready to save him if by chance the
unexpected occurred.

Yet this time, by sheer fortuitous bad luck ascribable to no mistake on
his part, the alibi had broken down and he was surprised to find that it
was important to his faith in himself that he should replace it somehow.

Mr. Vick had not been as easy to dominate as he had hoped when, in the
first moment of panic outside the hotel, he had decided to abandon
Richard and concentrate on the barber. The little man had a quicksilver
intelligence, bright and unstable. No thought appeared to be, as it
were, safe in his head for a couple of minutes together.

“In ten minutes you’ll be in old Moggie’s dressing-room, Major,” Mr.
Vick was saying with a bobbysox shiver. “Oh, my word, I do wish I could
see you two together! It would be worth putting down in a diary, that
would. I believe you’re selling him a song. Don’t deny it, I can see it
in your eyes, I’m psychic. You could, you know. There isn’t much you
couldn’t do, is there, Major? Be a sport and tell me, go on, do.” He
turned to the bartender. “He won’t tell me anything,” he went on, his
voice breaking. “We’ve been together all the evening....”

“Ever since opening time.” Gerry spoke with mock weariness.

“Ever since _after_ opening time,” corrected Mr. Vick with dignity.

“Hell to that, I’ve been suffering from you ever since _before_ opening
time. When we met it was so early we had to go and get the car before we
could have one. You’ve been drinking that liver paralyser steadily ever
since, but I should have thought you could have remembered that.”

“I do.” Mr. Vick seemed surprised by the fact. “You said we’d got to go
and fetch the car because it wasn’t opening time.” He paused and added
flatly, “six o’clock.”

“Half past five, old boy.” The correction came a fraction too sharply
and the bartender raised a harassed face from his meditations.

“London area, half past five,” he echoed obligingly.

The man in the trench coat met his eyes and laughed. “I’ve had him on my
hands since a quarter past five and I’m still sane,” he said with just
the right air of affable indulgence. “I shall have to leave him here for
ten minutes while I nip into the theatre. Don’t give him any more of
that stuff than you can help.”

“It’s a nice sherry.” The bartender pushed over the bottle for
inspection. “It’s good South African.”

“Is it?” Gerry stood reading the gay label, a new superiority in the
curl of his lips, and the manager, who had been watching him, suddenly
slapped his paper wand across his plump knees.

“Now you look exactly like your Grandad, Gerald,” he remarked. He had a
fat man’s voice, friendly and broad, with a South London accent. His sad
eyes had brightened in his white face. “I wasn’t sure at first,” he went
on. “You’re more like the old man than yourself, as I remember you. I’m
completely unrecognisable, I suppose? What is it? Thirty years?
Twenty-two or three, must be.”

He thrust a hand over the bar. “I’m Dan Tilley. Our garden backed on to
your grandfather’s in Urquhart Road, remember?”

There was a moment of utter silence. The man in the trench coat blinked,
as if a bullet had struck him, and for a second his face wore the
expression of innocent surprise which goes with it. Then he pulled
himself together. He was controlled, but still unnaturally grand. He
took the proffered hand with exaggerated deference.

“Why yes,” he began, conveying that he was utterly at sea but determined
to be polite. “Yes, of course. Dan--er--Tilley. My dear fellow,
twenty-odd years, what a very long time. Too long.”

The manager flushed. He was embarrassed and had no skill to hide it. He
took refuge in a sort of truculent pleasantry.

“‘Lord Almighty’, that’s what we called your old man,” he said. “It was
your name for him, not mine. You seem to have forgotten it was me helped
you to get away. You did get to Australia, did you? I never heard of you
again, you know, not from that day to this.”

Gerry remained wooden, the faint half smile still on his lips, but at
this point Mr. Vick decided to intervene. He had climbed on to a stool
and now sat there, his hat hanging half off his head, his gaze fixed
upon the manager whom he appeared to see for the first time.

“_I’ve_ known the Major for ten years,” he announced with startling
distinctness. “We are two dear old friends out on the loose. I don’t
know who you are _and I don’t care_.”

“Hush.” Gerry spoke reprovingly. This definite line so crudely taken had
made up his mind for him. No doubt it had occurred to him that a drunken
witness is of little use without a sober one to vouch for him. “This is
the original Danny Boy; the first chum I ever had,” he went on with an
abrupt return of friendliness. “I didn’t know you, Dan,” he said,
turning to the manager. “You made me grow cold for a moment. You brought
back my childhood. Good God, you old sinner, now I look at you you
haven’t altered in the least. Put on a fair-isle sweater and navy
knickerbockers and I’d know you anywhere. You say the same damned
things, too. I resent the suggestion that I resemble the old man.”

“You do though, Gerald, in feature.” The manager was mollified. He was
revealed as a slow-thinking person, loth to leave any subject until it
is utterly exhausted. “I’m not saying you’re like him in any other way,
of course. He was a one, and his second wife. They thought themselves
somebody.” He sucked his teeth by way of emphasis. “A clean paper collar
every day and a set of the _Encyclopaedia Britannica_ to read up at
night. He went through the world on those two, old Lord Almighty did.”
He laughed reminiscently. “Oh dear, he used to make my father so wild.
They used to go up in the train together to their pore little offices
and be rude to each other on a big-’eaded level all the way. Just a bit
more educated and more refined than anyone else in the street, that’s
how your Gran’dad saw ’imself. It shook ’im when you ran off, you know.
Did you go to sea as you planned?”

“Briefly.” Gerry’s wry smile suggested youthful false steps safely
retraced. “I never saw the house or the old people again, though. My
God, what an atmosphere to drag up an orphan child in. I can see that
place now,” he added with a flash of pure sincerity which completely
transformed him. “Suppressed dirt, suppressed starvation, and a
soul-chilling atmosphere of superiority to the rest of the ignorant
herd.”

“Huh,” said the manager. “Everybody knew that they could sell ’im at one
end of the street and buy ’im at the other. Silly old clod,” he added
with a flicker of resentment still alive after twenty years. “He had a
lower intelligence than most.”

“Oh no, he was a very brilliant man. I think you really must grant him
that.” The man in the trench coat made the statement with a conviction
not only out of character but clearly misplaced. The effect was
conventionally shocking, as if he had put a straw in his hair suddenly.
“Quite, quite brilliant,” he repeated with a fleeting smile of contented
superiority which made everybody in the room, including the drunken
barber, vaguely uncomfortable. The revelation was no more than a
glimpse. Immediately afterwards he was his usual sophisticated and
charming self. “It was no home for a kid, anyway,” he said.

“I should say.” The manager wagged his head again. “No one blamed you
for going. The old girl told a lot of lies, I believe,” he added slyly.

“What about? What sort of lies?” The questions came very sharply and the
manager coloured.

“Just what you’d expect,” he muttered. “I wouldn’t have blamed you, mind
you, if you had helped yourself to something to go on with. They’d made
your home impossible, I mean to say.”

“Lies, of course.” Gerry’s dignity was pitying. He seemed to be a
different person altogether when on the subject of his childhood. “Poor
woman, I think her life may have been difficult. She wasn’t clever, you
know.”

“Look at the time, Major, look at the time!” Mr. Vick went off like an
alarm clock himself. He was pointing at the bold-faced clock over the
door and was in imminent danger of falling off his stool.

Gerry burst out laughing and exchanged amused glances with his
newly-found oldest friend.

“Take care of him until I come back,” he said. “I just want a word with
someone in the theatre. I shan’t be ten minutes.”

“I’d like to see old Moggie and old Moggie’d like to see me,” said Mr.
Vick, emerging into the open after the bait which had been dangled
before him all the evening.

“I doubt it.” Again the childhood friends exchanged glances and as Gerry
went out of the back door nearest to the theatre the manager’s soothing
voice reached him as it addressed Mr. Vick.

“If you’ve been on sherry since opening time, sir, I wonder if you’d
like a change? What about a nice Fernet Branca cocktail?”

The man in the trench coat walked swiftly down the pavement, avoiding
the stage door in the blank wall of the theatre. There was a contented
smile on his lips. “Since opening time.” The words were so satisfactory
that he repeated them aloud. It was the point he had been trying to
establish all the evening and now that it had been done, and he had a
new alibi in place of the other which had gone astray, he felt
infinitely happier even though he was quite confident he would not need
to use it.

Perhaps if his attitude to the precaution had been less superstitious
and more practical it might have occurred to him that two alibis for the
same vital quarter of an hour, one in Richard’s mind and one in Mr.
Vick’s, might be more dangerous than none at all. That realisation came
some minutes later.

Crossing the main street he turned into one of those small eating houses
which seem always to be built on the same rectangular plan. They possess
two short counters set one on either side of a narrow entrance, and a
passage between leading into a square steam-filled room where
plastic-topped tables are surrounded by quantities of spiky bent-wood
chairs. This was a poor place with shabby painted walls and dusty light
bulbs, and the single waitress, a pallid flat-chested youngster, was
only too obviously the daughter of the grim old lady at the urns. A
group of seedy looking youths who might have been planning anything from
a burglary to a skiffle group sat round the largest table in the far
corner talking together, and did not look up as he came in. The rest of
the room was empty.

He chose a small table under the ledge of the right-hand counter. It
placed him in a corner diagonally opposite the whispering group, and as
he edged round to get the angle behind him the bunched skirts of his
trench coat scattered the lightweight chairs. Beneath the coat the
pockets of his ragged jacket were heavy and he frowned as he sat down.
The chance meeting with Mr. Vick had upset the whole exercise. He was
carrying far too much incriminating stuff for complete safety and the
wooden box was still in the car.

Yet he was by no means panic-stricken. His attitude was far more
dangerous than that. He felt impersonal, almost as if his whole interest
in the matter was academic.

There was a wireless set turned low on the counter and as he sat down he
heard the chimes of Big Ben heralding the news. He ordered coffee and
sat there sipping it while the prim voice of the B.B.C. announcer went
through the happenings of the day.

There was no police message, no mention of a West End Crime.

Presently he pushed his cup away and drew out the black wallet which he
had taken from Matt Phillipson’s body. It lay plump and neat in his
hands, where it looked unremarkable. By far its greatest bulk consisted
of a cheque book, he noticed with mild regret, of no use to anybody now.
But in the opposite pocket there was a reasonable wad of pound notes and
a couple of fivers tucked among all the usual miscellany. It was when he
was looking to see if there were any more that he discovered the two
letters, clipped together and kept there for safety away from
secretaries as Mr. Phillipson had promised Polly. Gerry recognised her
familiar sprawling handwriting and a flood of tingling blood rose up
from his stomach to suffuse his face.

Apprehension, breath taking and terrible as anything in his childhood,
took possession of him and he spread the sheets out with hands that
trembled.

There it was, clear and irrevocable, in words which could have come from
no one else.

“...the money doesn’t matter but you must tell him, dear. Make it
clear how wrong and how _dangerous_ it is, but leave me out. Once he
knows I know, the mischief will be done as he’ll be afraid and keep away
and there’ll be no one to keep an eye on him....”

The coarse skin on the lined forehead was damp. Gerry hardly dared to
read the second letter. As he turned to it the nerves in his face
contracted into a net of pain, and the blood in his heart felt icy.

“...Thank you, Matt, what a dear old sport you are. Thursday night,
then. I’ll be thinking of you both. If you can just give him a good
fright it may pull him right up and make him see sense. He’s all right
when you know him, one of the best. Give me a ring afterwards or better
still come in and see me. Love, Polly.”

The man in the trench coat sat looking at the trembling sheet. She
knew. She knew of the appointment and would know therefore of everything
else.

With the realisation, the odd hypothetical quality in his appreciation
of events left him suddenly and gave place to stark vision, a difference
as great as between sleeping and waking. For the first time he saw his
two alibis for what they were, two over-elaborate sums cancelling each
other out.

Gradually he became aware of a shadow and looking up saw the little
waitress standing close before him.

She was spreading out her elbows in an attempt to shield him with her
thin body from any chance glance from the other table. She was very
young, her black dress very poor, and the little gold cross on the thin
chain round her neck very small. Her circular eyes were black, too, and
shyly reproachful as she looked from his face to the table before him.

Glancing down, he saw that he had forgotten the wallet. It lay wide open
before him, the money exposed.

“Put it away,” she said softly, “you’re drunk, aren’t you?”

He pulled himself together at once and his charm lit up his face like a
lamp.

“Bless you,” he said, quickly, gathering up the notes and thrusting them
into his breast. “I’m sorry. I was reading a letter. It’s a bit of a
knock-out ... from a woman.”

The little face, pale-skinned and muddy, flushed with sly amusement as
she attempted badinage.

“She’s found you out, has she?”

He shivered and the sudden glimpse of helplessness appearing in his face
thrilled her.

“It seems so.”

“I see. Well, you’ll have to do something about her, won’t you?”

For a time he stared at her in open horror, silent as the full
implication of the words sank in. Then:

“Yes,” he said slowly. “Yes, I shall.”




Chapter 13

SOMEONE AT HOME


“If you don’t know where the shed is I can’t show you. ’E’s got no
business coming in at night at all, let alone sending down strangers.
There’s a lot of valuable property standing about ’ere, though you might
not think so.”

The nightwatchman at Rolf’s Dump was still a voice in the dark so far as
Richard was concerned, although by now he was standing only a few feet
away from him. Here in the Dump the moonlight had created a world of ink
and silver with no half tones. The watchman was lost in a black wall
rising up into the sky, but the dog, a white terrier, smooth-skinned and
shivering, sat visible in the path, presumably at his master’s feet.

Richard took two coins silently from his pocket and let the light fall
upon their broad silver faces. There was no response. The voice
continued to grumble.

“I’ve ’ad plenty of trouble down ’ere already tonight,” it said. “The
police ’ave been ’ere all day over on the other side of the estate.
They’ve still got the key of the footgate in Tooley Street. Did you
notice them as you came past?”

“I’m afraid I didn’t. Where would they be?”

“Over ’ere be’ind me, about three-quarters of a mile back, against the
’oarding.”

“No. I didn’t see anybody.”

“They’ve gorn then. Good job. There’s nothing more nosey than the
police. As for the public, they’re interfering, gabby, can’t keep their
traps shut. You would think a gang of labourers could load a ton or two
of empty oil drums on to a barge without interfering with what they
found be’ind them, wouldn’t you?”

“What did they find?” Richard felt in his pocket for a third coin. Again
there was no movement as he displayed it, but as he placed it with the
others the chink sounded and response was immediate.

“I don’t know if you can see me setting ’ere, sir.” The voice was many
shades warmer. “Wait, just a minute.” There was a scuffle and a bright
light appeared, revealing a little old man sitting on a kitchen chair in
a sentry-box of a shelter built into the hillock which was entirely
composed of old wooden wheels. He was wrapped in an assortment of coats
topped by a sleeveless leather jerkin belted with a piece of cord, and
from under the peak of his cap, which he wore pulled down far on his
head, a pair of spectacles with the thickest of lenses peered at Richard
hopefully.

The young man offered him the money and almost dropped it. The hand
which came out so eagerly missed his own and there was a moment of
confusion before the coins were safely transferred. The man was
virtually blind and not admitting it, a discovery which explained a
great deal.

“It was because the engine was all right, you see, sir.” Having stowed
away his seven-and-six the old man became a friend and his tone was
confidential.

“The engine,” said Richard, completely at sea.

“The engine of the ’bus, sir. It went, that’s what surprised everybody.
It started up at once, although it had been there for three years they
say and couldn’t nohow have been moved since last spring because of the
oil drums being right in the way, you see. They were put there in the
spring.”

Richard did not understand in the least. The entire statement struck him
as a _non sequitur_. He did not say so but his silence was expressive
and, aware of his lack of success, the nightwatchman tried again.

“It was the loaders what found it out,” he said hoarsely. “They was
nosin’ about yesterday after they shifted the drums and they saw that
seven old ’buses had been hemmed in behind this load they was movin’.
They over’auled them, seein’ what they could pinch I’ll bet, and one was
perfectly all right. When they went to lunch they ’ad to talk about it
in the boozer, someone ’eard them and re-ported them, and before anybody
knows what’s ’appenin’ the rozzers comes sniffin’ in. That’s what
democracy ’as come to. One word in a pub and down come the flippin’
police anxious not to miss anything useful. We’re a nation o’
scroungers.”

The information contained in this piece of involved thinking was of
little interest to Richard who was no reader of murder cases and was
unaware of any police search for a ’bus. His interest was solely in
Gerry.

“Does Mr. Hawker work here?” he enquired at last.

“Only in ’is shed, private like. ’E don’t own anythin’ stored ’ere.”

“I see. He rents a workshop here?”

“That’s about it. A little workshop. ’E tunes up racin’ cars down ’ere,
or limousines.” The watchman sounded admiring but vague and it occurred
to Richard, who had become something of an authority on the subject,
that Gerry must have been talking again. Since the nightwatchman had not
the evidence of his own eyes, his information could only come from one
source.

“Is he often here?” he enquired.

“On and off. Sometimes ’e works ’ere at night for a week. O’ course I’m
only ’ere at night meself. I couldn’t say what ’e does in the daytime. I
thought you was a friend of ’is?”

“Well, I’ve just spent the day with him.”

“Oh.” The reassurance seemed sufficient. “Well, ’e always ’as a word
with me when ’e comes in late. Two years now I’ve ’ad this job and ’e’s
always been very nice when he troubles me to open up for ’im. Reelly
very nice.” The coins clinked softly in his pocket, an accompaniment to
praise. “Very nice indeed. ’E’s a feller you can take to, ain’t ’e?
Always the same, I say, always the same.”

It became clear that this was about as far as they were going to get.
Richard turned away to look down the moonlit track which wandered away
through the nightmare landscape.

“Perhaps I’d better go on down to the shed. Where is it? Do you know?”

“Course I do. I seen it scores o’ times.” The nearly sightless eyes
stared angrily at a point some three feet beyond the one where Richard
was standing. “But I ain’t got time to take yer down there now. You’ll
’ave to go by yerself. People ’ave work to do, don’t forget.”

With a reproachful wriggle he settled himself an inch or so further back
in the shelter and switched off the light.

“It ain’t far down there.” His voice, hoarse and satisfied, came out of
the darkness. “It’s in a holler, he tells me. There ain’t no other
building in the place that I’ve ever ’eard of. When ’e comes in I’ll
tell ’im you’re there.”

Richard thanked him without deep enthusiasm and went off grateful for
the moonlight. Without it the Dump, which was eerie enough in any case,
must have been a place of terror. Although it was by no means a rubbish
heap, it was yet not odourless and he was constantly aware of dark
sliding shapes, inexpressibly evil, flickering out of his path. He
strode on doggedly, refusing to ask himself what on earth he thought he
was doing and what good could possibly come of the excursion. His chin
was tucked in angrily. At least he was doing something. At any rate he
would find out all he possibly could about Mr. Jeremy Hawker before he
next saw Annabelle.

He came on the shed unexpectedly. A gap in the row of hillocks which
lined the road revealed an artificial depression which had perhaps once
contained the foundations of a considerable house. A steep drive led
down into this basin and at the bottom, surrounded by a scattered
collection of old motor-bodies, discarded tyres, a broken carboy or two
and other similar debris, there was a ruin. It was built mostly of brick
and might once have been a kiln or a bakehouse or part of the cellars of
the original building. There was no way of telling. Now there was
nothing left but a nest of roughly roofed brick boxes, a broken chimney,
and a single tall shed with a tin roof on it and wide coachhouse doors.

Richard turned down into the hollow without hesitation. It did not occur
to him to query the shed. It suggested Gerry to his mind and he did not
doubt for a moment that it belonged to him. There was no one around. The
whole place was as silent as a churchyard. The building proved to be
bigger than he had thought on first seeing it, however, and the tall
doors were padlocked.

He circled it, stamping through the tall twitch grass which grew
sparsely on the uneven ground. There was a great deal of rubbish about,
he noticed, bricks and old cans and pipes lying in the weeds and all
picked out bright and misshapen in the icy light.

It was as he approached the smaller door at the back of the shed that he
experienced the first twinges of the extraordinary series of sensations
which descended on him later. He knew what fear was, naturally, but he
was not of a highly nervous or hypersensitive disposition. He had done
his share of service overseas and was not inexperienced, yet as he
approached that second door he was aware of some intangible menace which
made the short hairs at the back of his neck rise and prickle. It was
not a sound which had alarmed him, for the silence was oppressive. He
sniffed dubiously. The whole dump reeked but here there was something
else, something new to him yet so old that his disgust was instinctive.
He shrugged his shoulders irritably and pressed on.

The old fashioned thumb-latch on the small door lifted readily enough
but the wood was fastened lower down and from the inside. Either a bolt
or another padlock secured it. On impulse he put his shoulder to the
peeling painted surface and a little to his dismay, for he had hardly
meant to break into the place, it gave at once. He felt the iron staples
pulling out of the rotten wood.

The building he entered was in complete darkness save for a shaft of
moonlight, strong and clear as a searchlight, which poured in through
the single skylight high in the roof on his right. A square of light,
bright and barred, rested partly on a workbench which lined the
left-hand wall and partly on the pile of rubbish which had accumulated
beneath it, an area never so visible in the normal way when the doors
were open.

It was practically the first thing Richard saw, a collection of dusty
rubbish of a kind found in most motor workshops. There were paint and
oil tins there and bottles, a pail on its side, part of a pump, a ball
of crumpled paper, a set of rods which might have been part of a broken
deck chair, and among them, lying open, with its lining pulled out, a
white plastic handbag.

Why he should have found the sight of it so sinister Richard never knew
but as he stared at it his heart moved uncomfortably. It looked so
fresh, so very unused, and yet so completely ravaged, lying there in the
bright moonlight.

He came forward and stumbled over something lying in the fairway. He had
no torch with him, but, with the help of his lighter, he was able to
discover that it was a flat slab of polished marble which is still found
sometimes on old wash-stands. There were two wooden wine boxes of the
type which Gerry had been carrying round with him in the Lagonda, one
larger and one smaller lying beside it. They each contained a quantity
of ordinary bricks, a meaningless collection from Richard’s point of
view.

What he found more interesting was a glimpse of an inspection lamp lying
on the bench just out of the moonlight. He picked it up and followed the
lead along to a plug with a switch beside it. He pressed it over without
much hope but was startled by his success. Not only did the wire-caged
lamp light up but a hanging bulb in the roof sprang into life. He was in
a curious barn of a place, much older than he had supposed from its
appearance outside. There were beams across the tops of the walls and
the floor was made of stamped earth with here and there a patch of
brickwork or the ringed flag marking a well-head. The walls seemed to be
cluttered and were in darkness and the corners were crowded with junk of
all kinds. A petrol engine, stripped and glistening with oil, stood
blocked up on one side of the centre area, and inside the main doors
there was a clear space just about large enough to take the Lagonda.

The handbag was hidden now, lost in the general mess under the bench.
Richard squatted down to find it and drew it out at last. It had been
white once but was now thick with dust, yet his first glimpse had been
truthful. It was not worn and might have been new when its lining had
been torn out. He put it back where he had found it and, rising to his
feet, stood breathless in the oppressive atmosphere.

He was frightened. The realisation shook him still more. There was
something indescribably awful about the smell of the place, something
worse than dirt or vermin or the prickling stink of acid. His own
weakness made him angry, but his anger induced an obstinacy which kept
him ferreting round the shed, hunting for something, he did not know
what. There was sweat on his forehead and damp in his clothes, but he
stayed there, looking about for anything which would give him a clearer
picture of its owner and a lead on what he was about.

The fact that the shed was lit up and its skylight visible across the
dump did not occur to him. If it had it was improbable that he would
have worried. He was not afraid of Gerry. He thought he was a crook and
wanted proof of it, but it had not crossed his mind that his crimes
might extend beyond theft in some small form.

Gripping the lamp he went all round the place slowly, picking his way.
He found a flight of steps suddenly, all but falling down them as he
thrust his way round a pile of old coats hanging against the further
wall. They were wide steps, very shallow and bricked in the old way, and
they led apparently into a further room which, he decided, must be one
of the little nest of brick boxes which he had noticed from the roadway.
There was a curtain of tarpaulin over the entrance and the draught
whistling round it suggested that the building was almost if not quite
roofless. The flex attached to the inspection lamp was only just long
enough to reach the entrance and, as Richard pulled aside the waterproof
curtain and shone the beam in, he caught a glimpse of red walls streaked
with green and the glister of white fungus. He turned the lamp towards
the far corner and stood transfixed, his skin crawling.

Two old people sitting close together, mouldering fancy dress hanging
from them and their faces strangely wooden and brown, were perched on a
plank between two barrels. They did not move. Only the old woman’s eyes,
which were glassy and bright under a bonnet trimmed with beads, seemed
to meet his own.

Richard panicked. The lamp dropped out of his hand and he ran blindly
across the shed, stumbled recklessly among the pitfalls, the marble slab
and the wooden boxes, and pitched himself out of the door through which
he had first entered into the moonlight.

As the cleaner air enveloped him he pulled up, struggling with himself,
very much aware that he must force himself to go back. He was so torn by
the conflict that he did not see the two shadows bearing down upon him
and the grip on his arms took him by surprise.

“Now then, now then,” the time-honoured police warning was warmly human
in the nightmare.

“In there ...” Richard did not recognise his own voice. “In there. In
the cellar by the lamp. Two old people just sitting there.”

“Are they, by God?” The voice of Superintendent Charles Luke spoke out
of the blackness of a buttressed corner and his top-heavy form, kite
shaped and powerful, went crashing into the shed.




Chapter 14

HIDE MY EYES


“I like this cinema.” Annabelle surveyed the dark red and gilt
oppressiveness of the Como with frank satisfaction as she waited for the
lights to fade for the big picture. “It’s like settling down to dream in
a great State bed. Flicks are rather like dreams, aren’t they?”

Polly did not answer at once. She was getting herself thoroughly
comfortable in the seat she liked best, with the plush-covered ledge for
her bag and nothing save a misty expanse of air between her and the
giant shadows. She was hatless because it was evening and had achieved a
considerable presence without looking particularly smart. Her clothes
were of good material, very plainly made, and her kindly face wore the
solemn preoccupation of a child’s.

“Dreams,” she echoed suddenly. “I suppose they are. That’s why I like
them best without colour. Now listen, my dear, you say you really have
heard of that man Mr. Campion before, and that the tale about him is
that he is not just a silly ass?” She made no pause between the two
subjects and Annabelle was amused.

“That is what they say. Do you know how many times you’ve asked me that
since I first told you--before we started out? Four.”

“No. Have I?” Polly dropped her carefully gloved hand over the younger
one. “How dreadful! I’m sorry. He worried me, poor chap. He seemed so
very unsure of himself.”

Annabelle turned to her accusingly. “Darling, you’re not as silly as
that. You’re pretending. You knew that was his act. It’s an affectation
of his time. Young men invented it in the ’twenties. But _obviously_ he
went out of his way to say all that stuff when he was leaving.”

Polly’s frown deepened. “What did he mean? Do you know?”

“No, I don’t. I’ve been wondering.” Annabelle had the grace to colour.
“It wasn’t directed at me, quite, was it? It was about a sale of gloves
at a man’s shop called Cuppage’s, and had you bought a pair for anybody
as a present? Had you?”

The old woman stiffened. Her nose lengthened and her eyes were frosty.

“I may have done,” she said coldly. “I’m often in and out of Cuppage’s
and I enjoy sales. But I don’t see what that has to do with anybody
else. That’s my business, surely.”

She was rather alarming in this mood. It was the abrupt cessation of the
goodwill flowing boundlessly from her rather than any manifestation of
anger, Annabelle decided.

“He thought you’d say that,” she explained defensively. “That was why he
wrapped it up like that. I thought he was trying to tell you something
without committing himself.”

Polly did not speak. Her mouth formed words but she rejected them and
the last glimpse the girl had as the lights of the theatre went down was
of her strong calm face grown introspective and her blue eyes wide and
dark.

Annabelle lost herself in the film. It was a frolic of the new romantic
school about unsuspected passion and was delightfully decorated with
fancy-dress and smooth acting. It held her complete attention and she
was several worlds away by the time she returned to the silent figure by
her side and saw to her astonishment that Polly’s expression had hardly
changed. She was still staring straight at the screen as if she was
looking through it and her face seemed to have grown older.

The lights distracted her at last and she turned with a start and
smiled.

“Did you enjoy it?”

“Yes, I did. It was so pretty, wasn’t it? Awfully silly, though. I mean,
fancy not facing it.”

“Facing it?” The woman seemed appalled. “What made you say that?”

“Because it was all about it.” Annabelle began to laugh. “You wicked old
thing, you’ve been to sleep.”

“Not really. I was thinking.” Polly picked up her bag briskly. “But I
think we’d better go now, if you don’t mind. We’ll go along and see Mrs.
Dominique for dinner. While I’m there I want to make a telephone call.
You’re not tired yet, are you?”

“Gosh no. This is terrific fun, Aunt Polly. You don’t know how I love
it. I’ve never done much of it, you see. Who is Mrs. Dominique?”

“Sybylle? Oh, a very old friend of mine. I knew her when we were girls.”
Polly’s voice had warmed again. “She and her husband started this
restaurant of theirs, The Grotto, in Adelaide Street, just after the
first world war. It’s been one of the very best of the Soho places ever
since. Freddy and I always went in when we came to London, and long ago
she used to come up north and stay with me and bring the children.
You’ll like her. She’s hard because she’s had to be, but she’s a very
clever woman.”

“What about Mr. Dominique?” enquired Annabelle, who was taken by the
name.

“Adrian? He died, poor fellow, the same year as Freddy. Now she runs the
place with her son and his wife, and their son is coming along. They
still have most of the old staff which is amazing, and the cooking is
wonderful. You’ll like it.”

“It sounds terrific.” They were in a taxi now and Annabelle’s murmur
contained a vein of timidity. “Aunt Polly, I don’t want to be a beastly
expense.”

“Well, you’re not, girl.” Polly was rough in her attempt at reassurance.
“I want to see Sybylle. I should have come alone if you hadn’t been with
me. I often do on a Thursday.”

“I wasn’t thinking of the restaurant. I meant the taxi.” Annabelle was
hot faced in the darkness. “You see, I happen to know you usually take a
’bus because you mentioned it only this afternoon.”

“_I_ did?”

“Yes. You told your solicitor you were waiting for a ’bus in the rain
while murders were going on all round you.”

“Not murders, dear. Don’t say such things.”

“But you said it. Your Mr. Phillipson got frightfully prim and said he
never read about crime, which was a bit much I thought, coming from a
lawyer. It was silly of him anyhow, because he’d deprived himself of
the super-mystery of the two old people who were seen asleep in the ’bus
which must have taken the body away. I wonder what happened in that
case,” she added brightly. “We ought to have asked Superintendent Luke
while we had him in the house. He’s on the murder squad.”

There was dead silence in the cab.

“How do you know?” The question came huskily at last and Polly coughed
to explain it. “He didn’t tell me anything like that.”

“He wouldn’t.” Annabelle was blithely confident. “The police never do
tell one anything. Even our old bobby at home pretends to be as close as
a rock. I happen to know because Jenny knows the man’s mother-in-law,
and she told her that Prue had married someone big on the murder squad.
It’s one of those exciting things one does remember.”

She paused as the full implication of her revelation sank in.

“I shouldn’t worry about him coming to see _you_, though,” she added
awkwardly. “He may have got moved or anything.”

“Oh, good heavens, I’m not worrying.” Polly spoke too heartily to
deceive anybody. “Here we are. It’s just round this corner. I liked the
Superintendent, I thought him a very nice man.... Don’t go talking about
him in front of Mrs. Dominique.”

The Grotto, which had been a favourite restaurant of two generations of
discriminating London eaters, was not very large and not, to look at any
rate, particularly elegant. It possessed that mellow, slightly worn
appearance which has nothing to do with shabbiness, and its atmosphere
was as warm and private as the dining room in an old-fashioned family
house.

Its one long narrow room was dim save for the table lamps and had a very
low ceiling and a thickly carpeted floor. The diners sat on upholstered
benches arranged round the walls. The narrow tables were shrouded with
quantities of coarse white linen, and the service quarters were all at
the very far end of the apartment.

In the midst of this further wall there was an open office doorway and
before it, high and grilled, stood a little cash desk where Sybylle
Dominique sat as she always had sat, keeping an eye on everything,
keeping order, and above all keeping her professional status as a
shopkeeper plain to everybody.

She was a very small woman, slight and dark skinned, with a faint
moustache, intelligent eyes and unnaturally black hair cut close to her
head and worn with a fringe. There were several good diamonds on the
small hands, which betrayed her age as somewhere nearing seventy, but
her black dress was as severe and matronly as Polly’s own.

She looked up as they appeared and bowed as formally as if Mrs. Tassie
was a recent acquaintance, and went back to her books as the _maître_
scurried forward to greet the newcomers.

It was a much colder welcome than Annabelle had expected, but gradually,
as she began to recognise the formality for what it was, the ensuing
performance fascinated her and she saw that just as one could take one’s
hair to a master hairdresser, so presumably did one take one’s stomach
to a master chef. There was the same earnest solemnity about the
preliminary consultation, the same suggestion of ritual and obedience to
iron convention.

The fact that everybody concerned knew each other remarkably well made
no difference at all. The meal, which was not elaborate, was ordered as
though it was a trousseau at least, and it was only after the aperitifs
had been served that Polly paused to introduce her niece to the tall
sad-eyed _maître_ who turned out to be Peter Dominique, the son of the
owner, who had visited Polly when a little boy.

He shook hands, dropping his high priest’s or professional manner, and
emerged as a charming if slightly browbeaten person who was very anxious
to speak of ‘Uncle Freddy’, of whom he had clearly the kindest of
memories.

“You will go and talk to Mamma, won’t you, Polly?” He said earnestly.
“She is a little lonely, you know. She sees everyone and no one. It is a
very dull life for her now. All the customers appear to her as children
eating. The parents with whom she was of an age and who were flesh and
blood to her cannot come any more. Will you have your coffee in the
office with her, perhaps?”

“Yes I will, Peter, please. I’d like that. But first I must make a
telephone call.”

“Not before the meal?” He was hurt and shocked and Annabelle understood
that since he was a friend it mattered. “See, the soup is here. You can
telephone from the office when you join Mamma.”

Polly glanced at the small enamel pocket watch in her bag.

“It’s old Matt. I mustn’t ring too late or he’ll be in bed. What about
the child? Can I leave her here?”

“Why not?” Mr. Dominique smiled with his sad eyes. “You feel she may be
shy? Shall I find Florian? Would she care to see him?”

“Oh, is he at home?” Polly’s natural enthusiasm escaped her before she
remembered how worried she was. “I thought you were starting him in the
kitchens at Aix.”

“In a few weeks. At the moment he is downstairs very unhappy. I should
like you to see him.”

“I should love it,” she assured him and nodded and smiled as he drifted
away to allow her to enjoy her consommé.

She drank it as quickly as its heat would permit and obviously did not
taste it at all.

“You won’t mind staying here, will you?” she said to Annabelle, her eyes
very blue and anxious as she peered into the young face. “I want to talk
to Sybylle. She’s my oldest woman friend and she’s got a very good head.
There’s nothing like business to clear the mind. If you live alone as I
do you can start imagining all sorts of silly rubbish until you’re
terrified of your own shadow.”

Annabelle’s eyes widened appreciatively. “I know you can. It’s always
happening in the country. People have great quarrels and make it up
again, all without seeing or communicating with each other in any way,
but I shouldn’t think you had to bother about that, Aunt Polly. You’re
not frightened of much, are you?”

Polly shivered. “You be quiet, and eat your scampi. Now that I’m
sitting here in this dear old room I do wonder what I’m fidgeting about.
Your Uncle and I always had this table and they try to give it to me
still whenever I come in. They’re a very good family, the Dominiques.”

“Is Florian the grandson?”

“Yes. Be nice to him. They’re very proud of him. He’s just left
Chichester, where he did very well.”

“The school?”

“Of course. He may be a little grand. They’re tremendously wealthy. It
spoils a child sometimes.”

“What for? The kitchens at Aix?”

“Oh no. He expects that. It’s a tradition. Anyhow, don’t worry. Just be
yourself and you’ll be all right.”

Annabelle was silent. Since seeing the film she had felt a little like a
puppy which after being a considerable success had suddenly ceased to
amuse. Polly was thinking about her no longer. Meanwhile the food was
extraordinarily good and the service an art, under Mr. Dominique’s
personal supervision. The whole thing was a revelation to the girl, a
glimpse into a mystique.

Polly decided against a sweet for herself and when Annabelle’s ice
arrived she rose to her feet.

“I think I’ll run along now,” she said. “I’ve caught her eye. I’ll send
for you before we go. Sybylle is certain to want to meet you. She was
very fond of Freddy.”

She went quickly down the room towards the desk and Annabelle, a trifle
forlorn, sat looking after her. She had just time to see Mrs. Dominique
climbing carefully down from her perch when a discreet cough at her
elbow brought her round to find herself looking up at one of the most
typical senior prefects of a British public school that she had ever set
eyes on.

Annabelle had some experience and her eyes took in the large solemn
youngster and noted his superb self-possession and slightly anxious
enquiry about herself with complete understanding. The two regarded each
other blankly for a minute as if they had met on a desert island, and
then shook hands with open relief.

“You’re the niece.”

“You’re the grandson.”

“Oh well then,” he smiled at her, the sun coming out on his face as he
passed her with honours, “I mean to say, that’s all right, isn’t it? Do
you mind if I sit down?”

Meanwhile, in the tiny green-walled office behind the cash-desk, amid a
lifetime’s collection of trophies, photographs and caricatures, Sybylle
Dominique stretched up like a kitten on her toes to take her old
friend’s face between her hands.

“Ah, my Polly, how are you my pet? How good it is to see you. You look
like hell, dearest, complete hell. What is the matter, eh? What is it?
Come and sit down and tell me all about it.”

She had one of those voices which, after tinkling in youth, are apt to
crackle in age, but the graces and little affectations of her heyday
still hung about her by no means unpleasantly. She had always been a
genuine person and her intelligence had survived.

The two elderly women in their good black clothes sat down together on
the small settee which fitted neatly into the wall behind the door, and
there was a pause while a waiter brought them coffee and little glasses.

“I’ve been watching you,” Mrs. Dominique said. “The girl is quite
remarkably beautiful, but are you sure she’s twenty-four?”

“Eighteen. It’s the sister.”

“Oh, but that is no good at all. Polly, what are you thinking of?
Eighteen? The child’s a liability. They haven’t met, I hope?”

“Hardly. She’s very sweet, Sybylle, very sensible.”

“But much too young.” Mrs. Dominique spoke flatly and dismissed the
subject. “Have you seen Gerry?”

“Only for a minute or two this morning. He was on his way through
London.”

“And was he all right?”

“I thought so, dear. How do you mean?”

Mrs. Dominique poured the black coffee into the half-cups and dropped a
hand on her old friend’s knee.

“Why do you want him to marry?” she demanded. “I don’t believe in
interfering. I thought it over after what you said last time. You like
him, Freddy liked him, he’s charming and fond of you both in a nice way.
You don’t know these girls of the brother’s family. I should make my
will in favour of the person I liked best and forget it. That’s my
advice.”

“Yes.” Polly was not listening. She drank her coffee very quickly and
put down the cup with a rattle.

The other woman eyed her inquisitively. “You haven’t any reason? There
isn’t anything you haven’t told me?”

“No.” The lie was suddenly quite apparent and Mrs. Dominique settled
back and folded her hands.

“Ah well,” she said, “who can judge, eh? Who can advise? Never mind.
Now, who have I seen? Practically no one. Old Matt Phillipson came in
the other day with a client.”

“Yes.” Polly interrupted her. “I must telephone him. I want to get hold
of him before he goes to bed.”

“Plenty of time. He stays at his club until half past eleven these days.
He can’t sleep like the rest of us. I trust him though, don’t you? One
of the best. We’ve both got a lot to be grateful to Matt for. He’s
looked after us for a few years, my goodness. Kind, too, and always
discreet. If you want something awkward done, shout for Matt.”

“Sybylle.” Polly turned towards her. “Sybylle, do you remember--quite a
long time ago--Gerry and me and some gloves?”

Mrs. Dominique sat looking at her, her dark eyes very bright and knowing
and her lips smiling.

“Ah,” she said, “so that’s it, my Polly. He’s flown in a temper again,
has he? They do, of course. You were lucky in Freddy, dearest. He was a
sweet-tempered man, and you had no sons, so you don’t know. Most of them
aren’t like that.”

“That’s right.” Polly sounded relieved. Her calm face, which could still
look beautiful on occasion, had cleared. “That’s right. Gerry was only
angry, wasn’t he? He’d lost the gloves I’d given him and he was
irritated by it. That was all, wasn’t it? That really was all?”

Sybylle Dominique allowed a little, grunting, old woman’s laugh to
escape her.

“Whatever the cause it was quite a performance,” she said. “It nearly
put me off the boy for good. Temper! He teetered like a monkey and all
about nothing. We were only teasing him, weren’t we? Both of us, at the
table just outside here, very late. He’d taken you to a show and you had
the last two covers to be served. I had mine with you.” She broke off,
her eyes widening. “It must be years ago. I know he sent me some flowers
the next day with a little note and I decided I’d have to forgive him.
It shook me, though, because it was so unexpected. He’s always been so
charming. It was your clipping out of the _News of the World_ which
upset him.”

“I don’t remember that.” Polly had become obstinately stupid. “I don’t
remember any more about it than what you’ve just said.”

“Then although you’re younger, my memory is better.” The little woman
threw herself back on the couch with a crow of amusement.

“I remember you suddenly brought out a terrible police picture of a
single glove with an awful stained wrist, which you’d cut out of the
paper. You pushed it over to him and said ‘Aren’t those like the gloves
I gave you?’ and he turned on you as if you’d bitten him.” She slid a
tiny arm through the other woman’s own and squeezed her. “It wasn’t very
tactful, dear,” she said, laughing. “It was something a murderer had
left behind.”

“Oh no, Sybylle, no!” Polly’s cry was from the heart. It escaped her
involuntarily and the woman beside her set down her glass and wriggled
round in her corner so she could look in her face.

“Polly.”

“Yes?”

“What’s happened, my dear? What is it? Come on, out with it.”

“Nothing. Honestly, Sybylle.” She was making a great effort, forcing
herself to meet the enquiring eyes. “Truly. Well, almost nothing. Just
some silly man who appears to be a private detective called and asked me
in a roundabout way if I’d ever bought a pair of men’s gloves to give
away as a present....”

“What did you tell him?”

“Nothing.”

“Good.” Mrs. Dominique had become the business woman again, shock-proof
and packed with resource. “A _private_ detective. That’s nearly always
divorce. You don’t want to get involved in that. Oh how irritating of
Gerry, silly man! He’s attractive you see, and women are quite
relentless. Well, never mind, better find out now than later.”

She was sitting very upright at the edge of the settee, managing to
suggest somehow a miniature black poodle begging.

“Don’t worry, dear. Perhaps it’s as well. This girl is out of the
question because of her age, and it’ll give you time to find another, or
her to grow a year or so older. Women age faster than men.”

“I don’t think it was divorce.” Polly made the statement and closed her
lips. Mrs. Dominique watched her mouth and said “Oh” flatly, and there
was silence for a moment.

“Polly,” she began at last, taking a long breath, “this is only an idea.
Only something I’d do myself just to be on the right side. I mean, dear,
no one would ever dream....”

“What are you thinking of?”

Mrs. Dominique hesitated and presently busied herself pouring out cold
coffee.

“When one is fond of a son, real, adopted or step, one has no rules,”
she began oracularly. “I know that. One forgives. That is all there is
to it, and the whole nature of the attachment. That’s life. But,
dearest, one still ought to _know_. One should take common precautions,
both for his sake and for one’s own.”

“How do you mean?” Polly’s blue eyes were suspicious and the other woman
put a little arm round her shoulders.

“Dearest, we have both been friendly with this charming boy for ten or
twelve years now, and yet what do we really know about him? Nothing that
he has not told us himself. Now wait, wait ...” She held up her free
hand imperatively, although Polly had not spoken, “I only want to take
that appalling look off your old face, bless you. Why don’t you let me
find out the facts about him really discreetly, so that no one ever
knows an enquiry has been made?”

“Through the trade?”

“No, easier than that. Superintendent Cullingford often comes in here to
see Pete. A most charming man. He’s Security himself, but these fellows
all know one another. If....”

“No.” Polly was very pale and her eyes were dark again. “No, Sybylle,
promise. No. Not a word.”

Mrs. Dominique sat looking at her anxiously, true apprehension appearing
for the first time on her small face.

“All right, dear,” she said, “all right. Now you want to ring up Matt.
He’s a real true friend, that man. You can trust him. There’s the
telephone. I shall just be in the desk.”

She went out in her precise dignified way and the portly _sommelier_,
who happened to be passing, hurried himself for the honour of helping
her up into her high chair.

Alone in the office, Polly took up the telephone and gave a Hampstead
number. After a minute or so a voice answered her and her face cleared.

“Hullo, Mrs. Harper. Is Mr. Phillipson in yet? Hullo? Hullo my dear,
what is it? Mrs. Harper, what’s the matter? This is Mrs. Tassie. He ...
_what_? Oh where? Where? In his office tonight? Shot? Oh no, _no, no,
no_!”

“Polly, hush. My dear, the diners.” Peter Dominique, pale and startled,
closed the office door hastily and came over to her in time to take the
receiver from her hand.




Chapter 15

POLICE MACHINE


The young plain-clothes man, stepping carefully to avoid the gap where
floorboards had been removed to be examined for bloodstains by the
police laboratory, edged down the little ’bus towards the two model
figures arranged on the front seat and adjusted them slightly.

Mr. Campion, who was standing next to Charlie Luke in the darkness,
watching the proceedings, thought he had never seen anything so macabre
in his life, yet all the horror was implied and not actual.

The moonlight was still very strong, although it was clouding over in
the east, and at this end of the Dump, which was a graveyard of vehicles
of all descriptions, with an open space before it where the wall of oil
drums had been, the scene was like a deserted battlefield. The black
shadows were suggestive and the highlights incongruous.

In the midst of it the shabby, homely little ’bus stood panting. Its
engine was noisy but sound enough and its single interior light made a
faint pool of yellow in the black and silver world.

The two figures had been tidied as much as possible and the glimpse of
them, which was visible through the looped and fringed curtains of the
front window, was unexpectedly convincing. They had been designed and
made in the heyday of such models, when time was no object, so that even
now when they were practically in pieces they remained extraordinarily
lifelike.

The plain-clothes man climbed out again and Luke, who was playing with
the coins in his pocket, took a sighing breath. Campion could see his
sharp face and crop of shorn curls silhouetted against the floodlit sky.
He was taking a considerable chance in backing his hunch and no one knew
better than he how dangerous it might be for him.

If the shed should prove to be the innocuous workshop of a reputable man
who decided to stand on his rights, and the figures proved to be his
innocent property and nothing to do with the ’bus, then questions very
difficult to answer might easily be put not only to the Superintendent
but to his superior officers, whose attitude to the Goff’s Place mystery
had been expressed already.

“Right,” Luke said as the plain-clothes man’s slim body dissolved into
the pool of dark behind the ’bus. “Now I think we’ll have the principal
witness, Sergeant.”

“Okay, sir. Shan’t be a jiffy. He’s outside in the car.”

The voice in the shadows to their left betrayed a tremor beneath its
heartiness. The sergeant was a local man from the Canal Road Station
near by. It had been one of his men who had followed up the chance word
from the oil drum loaders overheard in a public house, and who had made
the discovery of the ’bus itself. The incident had entailed a great deal
of work for his office and for a time there had been frustration, when
it had appeared as if the Tailor Street Station in the West End,
Headquarters of the C.I.D. Division to which the Goff’s Place case
properly belonged, could not supply the witnesses required. At last two
of them had been located, one, mercifully, the all-important waiter
whose recollection had been so particularly vivid. Now the test which
was to decide if the whole exercise had been a waste of time was about
to take place.

“I should have waited for Donne.” Luke’s confidential murmur buzzed like
a whole hive of bees in Mr. Campion’s ear. “Have you met him? He’s the
D.D.C.I. of Tailor Street. You’ll like him. Funny vague sort of bloke
until you know him, then you see where you made your big mistake--not
unlike you, really.” He paused. “No offence, of course.”

Mr. Campion smiled in the darkness.

“This is his pidgin, I suppose.”

“Very much so. Goff’s Place is in his manor and he did the original
homework, such as it was. Worry, mostly.” He laughed softly but still
managed to make the sound ferocious. “He’ll be along soon but they’ve
just copped in for another showy homicide up there. Some old legal
eagle got himself written off in Minton Terrace this afternoon. Donne
was in the thick of it when I caught him on the telephone.” He cleared
his throat and spoke more softly than ever. “But I thought I’d better
find out about this particular exercise before old Yeo takes it into his
head to blow down here himself.”

He turned his head quickly as a murmur of voices reached them from the
winding path behind them.

“Now for the witness,” he muttered. “Hold your breath.” There was a
brief moment of quiet, during which the far-off noises of the city
became noticeable, and then, from a yard or so behind them, a strong
cockney voice, villainously refined, said distinctly:

“Oh yase.” Nobody spoke and he repeated it. “Yase. That’s them all right
and that’s the ’bus. I’d know it anywhere, anywhere I’d know it.” The
speaker then moved closer, paused, and presently made a remark, which in
the circumstances was absolutely terrifying. “The old lady’s awake now,
I see. Of course she was all out, sleeping like a rock, when I see her
before, when the ’bus was in Goff’s Place.”

“Half a moment, sir.” The sergeant’s voice, brisk and resourceful, was
welcome. Someone had giggled hysterically and Mr. Campion felt for him.
He hoped it was not himself. There was a muttered consultation near the
’bus and presently the young plain-clothes man appeared again, edging
his way along it. He moved the head of the figure nearest the window
very slightly, so that the eyes were in shadow.

The effect of the manœuvre was oddly reassuring to most of the audience
but the impact on the witness was completely different and much more
violent. He swore abruptly and unprintably and in an entirely different
accent now that the refinement was absent.

“Now that, I did not know,” he said at last and his tone would have
carried conviction even in the Old Bailey. “That’s got me, that ’as,
right in the wind. Images! ’Strewth, you wouldn’t believe it, would
yer?” There was a long pause and he suddenly said, “’Ere, what about...?”

The new idea which had presented itself to his mind was apparent to Luke
before he expressed it.

“Wait a moment, son,” he chipped in hastily. “Don’t say anything now
about any other occasion on which you may or may not have seen any part
of the exhibit. One thing at a time. All we want to know at the moment
is if, in your opinion, this is the vehicle you saw in Goff’s Place on
the date as recorded in your statement. Sergeant, you’ll see to this,
will you?”

He led Mr. Campion away quickly, picking his way towards the moonlit
path which led down through the Dump to the shed.

“He’ll remember on his own where else he saw them,” he confided in the
same sepulchral rumble. “Once we start helping him we’re suspect. Must
be. The old girl in Garden Green says she put those figures out. We’ll
find out what she meant by that tomorrow. She probably paid the dustman
to take them away.”

“Do you think these are hers?”

“Oh yes I do.” Luke’s peaked eyebrows were briefly visible as a shaft of
light passed over his face. “I do. I mean to say, they’re remarkable.
They take people in. There can’t be two sets of jokers like that wild in
the pack.” He hesitated. “_She_ was on the level though, I thought,
didn’t you? She knew nothing.”

Mr. Campion did not commit himself. He was saved from the necessity by
the appearance of the local Inspector from the Canal Road Station, a
compact bustling man called Kinder, only just above regulation height.
He came hurrying through the chequered darkness, his torch beam bobbing
on the path before him.

“The first shot is a bull, Inspector,” Luke said, and Campion heard the
man’s grunt of relief.

“An unqualified identification, sir?”

“He seems quietly confident.” The Superintendent appeared to echo the
mood. “It’s in the bag, barring Act of God. While we wait for the other
witnesses I shall authorise a search of the shed. I’m going down there
now.”

“Yes, sir.” Kinder was far too experienced to criticise. Instead he
opened the subject he had come to discuss. “Young Waterfield,
Superintendent,” he began, “he’s made a very full statement and there is
only one point in it which isn’t entirely satisfactory. His address has
been checked and his proofs of identity are all right. He has spent the
day with the man who owns the shed, and he’s not the type to break in
and enter save in the way of friendship, as it were. Do you still feel
that we should hold him until this fellow Hawker, or Chad-Horder, turns
up?”

“You don’t?” Luke’s laugh was not lighthearted. “What’s the
unsatisfactory item in his statement?”

“Nothing very much. I simply felt he wasn’t giving us quite the lot. He
says he first saw Hawker in a barber’s in Edge Street about eleven this
morning, but he isn’t particularly clear why he went there. It’s not the
place where he usually gets a haircut. He simply says he found Hawker
interesting, but he doesn’t say why or why he spent the day with him
instead of going to work.” He paused. “None of the possible explanations
which leap to my mind apply,” he added primly. “He’s a decent kid from a
good and influential sort of home, and my instinct is to let him go. It
may be that he’s right when he says that he began to think Hawker was a
crook who was trying to use him to alibi some job between half past five
and six which went wrong. Waterfield may just fancy himself as a
detective.”

Luke’s teeth flashed in the half light.

“Same like me,” he said cheerfully. “All right. Do what you think best,
chum. He’s all yours. All I want is an eye kept on him so that when I
need him I can have him brought in on a dog lead. Have you got the staff
for that?”

“I think so, sir.”

“Fine.” Luke’s shrug was not visible in the shadows but both men would
have sworn to it. “I’m expecting Chief Inspector Donne from Tailor
Street, by the way. I shall be obliged if he could be told to look for
me down here in the shed.”

“Righto, sir. I’m just going along to the exhibit now but I’ll send
someone back with the message.” Kinder continued towards the ’bus and
Luke and Campion pressed on towards the shed.

“He’s quite right, blast him,” Luke said presently. “I can’t go holding
nice little lads from literate families who can write to Members of
Parliament just because I’ve got a hunch I may need ’em. Of course I
can’t. Who do I think I am, I wonder.” An obstinate grunt escaped him.
“I tell you what, though. On the strength of an identification from one
bird-headed grill-room hand from a temperance hotel I am going to take
this shed apart if it costs me my ticket. There’s some discreet homework
going on there now.”

They walked on to the hollow together and Mr. Campion was struck again
by the extraordinarily sinister appearance of the small group of ruined
buildings amid the debris, the single skylight window in the tin roof
yellow in the moonlight. The door at the back of the shed was still open
and as they came in one of Luke’s own men, a sharp-eyed youngster called
Sam May, emerged from the shadow round the entrance to the further
chamber.

“There’s one or two objects of interest about, sir,” he began. “Nothing
actually actual yet, but a lot of curious stuff. Will you step down here
for a minute? Mind the bit of marble as you come.”

Luke waited to look down at the slab and the two wooden boxes of bricks
beside it.

“What’s that all about?” he said to Mr. Campion. “How to make ‘a chic
marble-topped coffee table as a surprise for her birthday’?”

“I doubt it.” The thin man in the horn-rims touched the edge of the
stone with the toe of his narrow shoe. “It’s been bedded in, see, with a
spot of sand. It suggests to me an experiment of some kind. I don’t
quite see what.”

“There is something experimental down here or I should have my conk seen
to,” murmured Detective Constable May, who appeared to be enjoying
himself. “This way, sir.”

He led them through the tarpaulin curtain to the partially roofless cell
where the figures had been found. A second Detective Constable, an older
man from the Canal Road Station, was waiting for them. He carried a
powerful torch of the kind that is mounted on a wire stand and was
directing its beam at the solid door of a well-head set in the worn
bricks of the floor. He looked thoroughly shocked and the area round his
eye sockets was pale.

“Evening, sir,” he said as Luke appeared. “I’ve closed this again. It’s
not very nice.”

Luke made no movement towards it. His angular shadow, made giant size by
the low based lamp, towered menacingly above the scene.

“Can you see anything down there at all?”

“Not a lot, sir. It might be crude oil to look at, and Gawd knows how
deep it is. It’s sludge of some sort, that’s certain.”

“Huh. Anything else?”

“Nothing conclusive. There are four empty carboys which at one time have
contained sulphuric acid, just outside over the wall here. We found two
galvanised tanks in the shed itself, and there’s a stirrup-pump, or the
remains of one, among the junk under the work bench.”

“You’re thinking of the Haigh case.”

The detective eyed him woodenly. “Well, it’s not unnatural of me, sir,
is it? I mean to say, if we’ve got the ’bus and the passengers, but we
haven’t got the moneylender...?”

“Exactly.” Luke’s grin was savage. “However, don’t forget first how long
he’s been missing, and then that if the forensic boys had waited until
the end of the week to do their homework in the Haigh case even they
admit there wouldn’t have been any evidence to convict on. I should feel
happier if you’d found nothing to indicate that the owner of this shed
had ever heard of sulphuric.”

“I see, sir.”

“Of course, we’re not chemists,” murmured the optimistic May in the
background. “Give those chaps half an hour in here with their bits and
bobs and there’s no telling what they might be able to find.”

Luke turned to Mr. Campion as they stepped back into the shed proper.

“Have you ever heard Yeo on the subject of chemists?” he observed wryly.
“He says they’re like war weapons. There never was a prosecution chemist
born who didn’t get close at hand a defence chemist to cancel him out,
and in his opinion the same thing goes for pathologists and
trick-cyclists. What else have you rooted up, Samuel?”

“Not a lot yet.” Constable May, who had followed him out, was regretful.
“We’ve only just scraped the surface. But there’s one or two hopeful
things about. Take a look at this little fitment on the bench, sir.”

He pointed to a block of small drawers in rough oilstained wood.

“It’s a repairing watchmaker’s cabinet I should say. But look what’s in
it.”

He pulled the drawers out one after another and Mr. Campion, who was
watching, felt a trickle of cold creep down his spine. Yet there was
nothing so very extraordinary to be seen in the dusty six-inch-square
containers. It was only that in one particular drawer, instead of the
usual gritty miscellany of nuts, staples, rings, washers, screw-hooks
and eyelets which filled the rest, there was a collection of other less
typical items: a new cheap lipstick in a pale colour, a complete set of
studs of ordinary quality, a quantity of steel hairgrips for use on grey
hair, a nail file and a pair of tweezers combined, a cheap butterfly
brooch with the enamel chipped on one wing, a plastic cigarette holder,
a key ring with a medallion attached, a pen knife with a Masonic emblem
etched on it, and a dozen or so other worthless trifles, none of which
possessed any individuality but which taken together struck a chord in
the memory of every man present. As detectives they were all familiar
with that most usual of exhibits, the contents of the deceased’s pockets
or handbag. The pathetic collections are always strangely similar. They
consist of little personal items of no interest to anyone but their
owners, and, by the time they reach police notice, to no one at all.

Luke stood looking at the drawer, his shoulders drooping. He was moved
and angry and also, they saw when at last he looked up, frustrated.

“Horribly suggestive, but what does any of it prove?” he said savagely.
“Damn all.”

“There’s this, sir.” With some of the placid pride of a retriever Sam
May produced the remnants of the plastic handbag which Richard had
first discovered, and, holding it with a pair of metal tongs, laid it
before his boss. Luke shook his dark head regretfully.

“Good multiple store stuff, son,” he said. “Made and sold by the
million. Besides, all this is old. It’s been sorted and scattered. The
chap has had time. What we need now....” He broke off abruptly.

Chief Inspector Henry Donne of Tailor Street, the Division which
includes the West End of London and is one of the most important, came
quietly into the room. Mr. Campion, regarding him with interest through
his spectacles, saw with a start what Luke had meant. Donne was one of
those loose-boned fair men who in youth look older than their years and
in middle age look younger. His face was concave, with a strong chin and
a lumpy forehead, but his eyes were smiling and slightly shy between
very thick light lashes. He had a record of remarkable successes
achieved through sheer application and was reputed to be without nerves
of any kind.

He looked at the Superintendent, who as far as this particular
investigation was concerned was his immediate superior, and smiled
faintly.

“Nice little place you’ve got here, but unaired,” he murmured, but
slyly, as if the habit of joke-making was an affectation with him which
he hoped would be forgiven. “I hear two witnesses have already
identified the ’bus.”

“Two?” Luke was pleased. “I can uncross my fingers. I’ll get you to take
a look at what we’ve got, Henry, and then, if you agree, we’ll get Pong
Wallis down from the labs with a full turn-out and let them take the
place to pieces. Meanwhile we can concentrate on the man who rents it.
I’ve got a chap waiting for him at his home address now and I see no
reason why he shouldn’t bring him quietly in. The bloke has no idea that
we’re on to him.”

Donne glanced round the shed again. “What connects the man who owns this
outfit with the ’bus?” he enquired.

“The two figures. They were found here. Oh, I was forgetting, Henry. You
don’t know Mr. Campion, do you?”

He performed the introduction and the two men shook hands. Campion was
faintly dismayed to notice that he was being appraised in the light of a
legend and an example encountered in the flesh for the first time.

“What happens if the chemists find nothing conclusive here, Charles?” he
demanded in a somewhat hasty attempt to give his new acquaintance
something other to think about.

“Then we’ll have to do some more homework.” Luke was returning to form
in a splendid way. The old energy and fierce good humour was pouring
back into him. “We’ve got a very interesting statement from the
youngster, who spent most of today with the man we’re interested in.
This boy is under the impression that he was being used as an alibi for
a period somewhere between five-twenty-five and six this evening. If
he’s right, the man was up to something about that time in your manor,
Henry.”

“Mine?”

“Probably. He was based on the Tenniel Hotel and appeared to expect to
get there and back in something over fifteen minutes. Can you let us
have a full list of likely incidents before the night’s out?”

Chief Inspector Donne opened his mouth and closed it again.

“About that time there was a fine drop of homicide going on some four
minutes’ walk from the Tenniel,” he said at last. “On the face of it it
doesn’t seem very likely that it can connect, but you never know. A van
deliveryman walked into a basement office in Minton Terrace, shot dead
the old solicitor who opened the door to him, lifted his wallet, and
walked back up a flight of stairs to the entrance again. The
commissionaire heard the shot but assumed it was the noise made by the
box the van man carried falling on to the marble floor. The bloke
dropped this box in the front hall as he came in and it went through the
old boy’s mind then that the noise was unusual and like a shot. My chaps
are down there experimenting now. What could one put in a wooden wine
case so that the row when it hits a marble floor sounds like a gun?”

The idle question died away in the silent outhouse and his audience, who
were looking at him as if he were something out of science fiction,
turned as one man and their glances bent towards the wash-stand top
embedded in the sand and the wooden boxes and the bricks beside it.




Chapter 16

FAREWELL, MY PRETTY ONE


Inspector Kinder of the Canal Road Station was almost as energetic as he
was obstinate. He made up his mind that it would be safer not to hold
Richard and, having extracted from Luke the permission to release him,
he rushed the matter through with the result that the young man was set
down at his Chelsea lodgings by an auxiliary police car not equipped
with wireless a good fifteen minutes before word came up from the shed
that he was needed again. Unfortunately for Kinder, by the time a
detective from the Chelsea Division got round to the address young Mr.
Waterfield had left the house once more.

It happened very simply. When Richard stepped out of the car it waited
at the kerb until he had let himself in with his latchkey and shut the
door. He waited on the mat inside until he heard the vehicle move on,
and then went down the hall to the alcove where the telephone was kept.
The lights were dim down the narrow way and there was no sign of life in
the landlady’s quarters in the basement, which prepared him for the fact
that the instrument proved to be dead. There was a notice on the wall
above it, written in a firm feminine hand, explaining the position.

     “This telephone, which is for the use of Residents Only, will be
     disconnected at ten-thirty every evening. The service will be
     resumed at 7.30 a.m. Residents are requested to note that incoming
     messages can NOT be accepted by the caretaker.”

Experience had taught Richard that there was no relaxation from this
rule and so, after waiting a discreet five minutes to let the police get
well on their way, he went quietly out into the street again and walked
across the road to the telephone kiosk on the corner. There was no
answer from the number he called, but he was not particularly
surprised. Annabelle had said specifically that she and her hostess were
to eat out after the movie. His aim was to catch her immediately she
came in and before she went to bed.

So he strolled on towards the city centre, calling the number from each
group of telephone boxes as he met with them.

A coffee stall keeper obliged him with a pocketful of coppers in
anticipation of success, and he spent the whole of the next hour, while
the police of two divisions were looking for him, telephoning from kiosk
after kiosk and getting his money back every time on the no-reply
signal.

It was a long stroll through the deserted late night streets but he was
deeply preoccupied and did not notice it. He was aware he had no hope of
persuading Annabelle to do anything she didn’t want to do over the
telephone, but he fancied that if he could get her to meet him out on
the Green again early in the morning he could put up a very convincing
argument and get to his office in reasonable time as well.

It had not been easy to keep all mention of Garden Green out of his
statement to the police. They had asked him more than once how he had
come to choose Mr. Vick’s barber shop when it was so far from either his
lodgings or his work, and he had known at the time that his replies were
unconvincing. All the same he had stuck grimly by his story and was
rewarded by the knowledge that so far, at any rate, Annabelle had not
been dragged into anything “unpleasant”.

Richard used the word to himself with a nuance worthy of his own
great-grandfather, masculine chivalry, protecting and romantic, out of
fashion for forty violent years, was returning in his generation. He was
still not connecting Gerry with any crime more serious than theft, for
the police had been very reticent, but this to his mind was quite
unattractive enough and he felt very strongly that Annabelle should be
taken right away from it all and be safely down in the country before
this friend of her relative reaped the trouble which was coming to him.

As the moon sank the clouds thickened and there was a promise of rain in
the air by the time he reached the corner of the park. By now he was
used to hearing the telephone bell ringing out in the gay little house
which he recollected so vividly from his glimpse of it in the morning.
The sound of it was a distinctive hollow trill and he could see in
imagination dim quiet rooms and silent furniture waiting for the newly
radiant Annabelle as she came up the path. He saw her standing aside for
a blurred but vaguely unattractive old lady to fit her key in the lock,
and then, hurrying forward as the telephone summons greeted her.

The only fault with this picture was that it did not materialise. When
he reached Park Lane and turned into the first telephone kiosk the
signal he received after dialling the familiar number was not the
unanswered ringing tone but the continuous whine which indicates that
the line is out of order. This was so unexpected that he dialled it
again and finally got hold of the operator.

The impersonal voice was courteous but firm. It did not care how often
he had rung or how recently, it explained with patient coldness: the
number was now unobtainable, not because the line was engaged nor yet
because someone had wedged the receiver to prevent the bell ringing, but
because some definite fault had developed since he last called and the
address could no longer be reached by telephone.

The news was irrevocable and worrying. Richard came out of the box
frowning. Before him the wide road ran on beside the Park towards Marble
Arch, Edgware Road, Edge Street and finally the Barrow Road. He scarcely
hesitated but set off grimly down the pavement.

       *       *       *       *       *

About the same time, on the other side of central London, Madame
Dominique and her son Peter were saying good-night to Polly on the steps
of their private entrance to The Grotto, a few yards down the small
alley which bounded the back of the building. Annabelle had already
reached the main street and was waiting on the corner with Florian, who
was still in attendance. They were both delighted with themselves and
their laughter was softly audible to the little group in the doorway.

Sybylle Dominique was holding Polly’s sleeve. She looked minute standing
between her tall son and the other more motherly figure.

“Don’t worry more than you can help. Take something rather than lie
awake,” she was murmuring urgently, her feather-weight strength
concentrated in an effort to comfort her old friend. “That housekeeper
of Matt’s didn’t know a thing. The police hadn’t told her; they don’t.”

Polly looked down at her. Her face was only just visible in the grey
light and the skin showed taut over the fine bold bones.

“They’d have let her know if it had been suicide or accident,” she said
bluntly.

Sybylle Dominique drew a long uneven breath.

“Oh, Polly,” she said softly, “oh, Polly.”

“Goodnight.”

The two elderly faces met and the soft cheeks touched.

“I don’t _know_ anything, Sybylle.” Polly’s words came painfully. “You
understand, dear, don’t you? I’m upset, but it’s really only because I’m
thinking about poor old Matt. Don’t let me put ... anything else into
your head, will you?”

“Of course not, my girl, of course not.” The tiny crackling voice was
full of pity. “Gerry....”

“What about Gerry?” Terror flared in Polly’s tone, but the whisper was
very low.

Sybylle’s grip on her sleeve tightened.

“There’s _some_ good in that boy or you couldn’t love him, dearest,” she
said. “That’s a law of God and Nature and none of us here will forget
it. I’ll give you a ring in the morning, my dear. Now off you go with
that staggeringly beautiful child of yours, before my poor little Flo
drops on his knees in the gutter. Poor little beasts, isn’t it frightful
what they’ve got to find out before they come to the end of _that_
story?”

She was talking to ease the tension and Polly put her arms round her,
big handbag and all.

“You’re a dear, Sybbie, you always were. Goodnight, Love. God bless.”

Annabelle and Polly caught the last Number Fifteen ’bus of the evening
from the bottom of Regent Street. Florian escorted them to the stopping
place and stood looking after the vanishing red monster bearing them
away. The old woman led the girl up the stairs to the deserted top deck
and along to the front seat, but Annabelle paused to wave to him,
sending him home ecstatically happy.

The girl was shiny eyed and delighted with herself. It had been a honey
of an evening. Alone, grown up at last, and with someone new and city
bred to impress. She turned to Polly as soon as she sat down,
concentrating on her for the first time since the meal, eager to thank
her and to confide.

“Aunt Polly,” she said seriously, “do you know this has been probably
the most wonderful evening of my whole life.”

Polly, who had been staring down the curving street picked out in
lights, heard the words as if they were far off and utterly meaningless.
Her bleak eyes took in the glow on the young face and closed before its
unbearable fatuousness.

“Oh, darling, aren’t you well?” There was disappointment in the girl’s
cry as well as compassion, and Polly was stung to life by it.

“I’m tired, that’s all. You had a good evening, did you?” She settled
herself on the jolting seat, tucking her heavy black skirts about her,
folding her hands over her bag, and raising her elbows so that the girl
could slip her hand through the crook in her arm to steady herself. “Flo
seems to have turned out well,” she ploughed on. “He was pompous as a
small boy.”

“Was he? That’s all gone now. I liked him. He’s awfully sensible but
terribly young in years.” Annabelle was inclined to sigh over it.
“Richard really is more the right age, against mine I mean.”

“Richard.” Polly remembered the name with a sigh of relief. “That’s the
pocket-sized tough with the red hair?”

“Did I say tough?” Annabelle was dubious. “He is, of course, but there’s
nothing rough about him. He’s formal, if anything. You’ll approve, I
think. But look, Auntie, what’s interesting me at the moment is this.
Florian says he can get Fellows tickets to the Zoo on Sundays and he
knows all the keepers. I could go with him one day, couldn’t I?
Apparently there’s a ginger pig there who’s exactly like Robinson Tariat
the playwright. Florian says it’s rather the thing at the moment to go
and see it and give it....”

“Annabelle, I want to talk to you.” Polly was aware of being brutal.
“That is why we’ve come back by ’bus. I’m sorry, my dear, but you’ve got
to go home.”

There was complete silence for a while and then the girl said, “Oh. Oh,
I see.”

It was only too obvious that she did no such thing. Her lovely face wore
a mask of blank dismay and her round eyes were full of tears already.
Polly regarded her helplessly.

“I’m sorry,” she repeated.

“Oh, it’s all right.... Is it because I’m too young, or have I done
something?”

“Neither. Circumstances have altered, that’s all.”

“Oh.” There was another long pause and the girl sat up, drawing her hand
away and stiffening. “I only enjoyed the good time because it was given
to me,” she remarked presently. “I didn’t _need_ it. I mean I hope
you’ll let me come and see you anyhow--sometimes.”

“No.” Polly winced at the stare of bewilderment and took hold of herself
irritably. “No, dear, I don’t want you to. That’s what I’m trying to
tell you. I want you to go home first thing tomorrow morning and to put
your whole trip up here right out of your mind. I want you to forget
that I ever wrote to your mother or that you ever came to see me. I
shall give you a note to take to your sister. I don’t want her or you to
answer it, or ever to try to see me again. I don’t suppose you’ll want
to, but anyway I’d rather you didn’t. Is that absolutely clear?”

“Not _ever_?”

“Not ever. Don’t make it sound like that, child. Don’t be absurd. It’s
best. In fact you’ll find it’s vital.”

“But what have I done?”

“Nothing at all. Nothing at all. It’s entirely my affair. Nothing to do
with you at all. You’re out of it. Now forget it until we get home. Did
you have a nice dinner?”

“You know I did, you had it with me. Oh, don’t treat me like a child.
What is it? What’s happened? Can’t I help you?”

“No. Be quiet.”

“But you thought I could and said so in the letter. That was why you
wanted me. Has it changed?”

“Yes.”

“Could it change again?”

“No.”

“Are you sure?”

Polly was silent. She seemed to be considering the question, or facing
it perhaps.

Annabelle was watching every variation in her expression.

“Oh, I thought it was going to be wonderful,” she burst out in a sudden
abandonment of childhood’s grief. “Can’t I come back ever? Are you sure,
Aunt Polly? Are you sure?”

The old woman turned her head. Her mind was shuttering.

“Quite sure, dear,” she said and was suddenly calm. “Quite sure. Now
let’s forget it and enjoy the ride home. London’s very lovely at night.”

“I shall hate it always after this.”

“No, don’t say that.” Polly was speaking absently and she patted the
hand on the tweed-covered knee.

Annabelle turned on her like an infant. Angry tears flooded her eyes.

“Won’t you miss me?” she burst out. “Won’t you miss the fun we would
have had? Don’t I remind you of Uncle Frederick? Don’t you want a good
daughter to keep you young?”

“Hush,” said Polly. “Hush. Look, that’s Selfridge’s....”

They left the ’bus on the corner of the Barrow Road and went slowly up
to the house. The old woman walked heavily and her shoulders were a
little bent, but she was occupied and kept sane by the necessity of
managing and comforting the child.

“Now when we get in,” she said, “I want you to go up to my sitting-room,
light the gas fire and pull the curtains, and wait for me.”

“What are you going to do?”

“I’m going to my desk for a minute to drop a note to Jennifer. Then I
shall heat some milk and bring it up with me, and as we drink it I’ll
tell you what I want you to do. I want you to be off very early
tomorrow. Could you get up at six?”

“Of course I could and I expect there’s a train, but....”

“No buts. Just do what I say. I’ll give you the note for Jenny tonight.
Get up as early as you can and come down to the kitchen and I’ll give
you a cup of tea and you can be off before the char arrives. Oh, and
Annabelle, I don’t want you to buy a paper until you get home.”

The girl looked at her sharply but she did not ask questions.

“Very well,” she said.

The house looked pretty and bright even by the light of the
old-fashioned street lamp outside the gate. Polly unlocked the front
door and turned on the light.

“Now you run up.”

“Let me get the milk.”

“You can if you like. You’ll find everything in the kitchen. Or are you
frightened to go down there alone in the dark?”

“No. It’s not that sort of house, is it? It’s so gay and feels so full
of people, even when no one’s here. I do love it so.” Annabelle’s young
voice was uncertain but she controlled it with a valiance none the worse
for being conscious. “I’ll take the milk straight up.”

She went off down the two or three steps to the kitchen and Polly turned
into the tiny room on the right of the hall door, which was practically
filled by an old-fashioned roll-top desk with a telephone on it. It had
been the front parlour in the days when the house had been a Victorian
cottage and was now used by Polly as the office to which she had become
used when keeping an hotel. She opened the desk, sat down at it, and
pulled a sheet of paper towards her.

     “My dear Jenny--” the familiar sprawling hand spread over the
     page--“I am sending this to you instead of to A. because you will
     know how it is best for her to spend it. Training for something, or
     on Savings Certificates. However, whatever is done, she must have a
     real say in it so it is made out to her, as you will see. I enclose
     a smaller one for you, dear, as a wedding present. See you both
     cash them at once and do not mention them to anyone, except your
     Bank Manager of course. As A. will tell you, and I expect you will
     see for yourself, this is goodbye. I cannot have either of you
     mixed up in anything not your business. I am sure you are a nice
     family and I wish I could have known you all, but there it is. I do
     not want any thanks for cheques and no letters or messages of any
     kind to come to this house. If any newspaper _should_ get on to you
     at any time--unlikely but you never know--simply say clearly that
     you have never seen me in your life and keep A. well out of the
     way.

                                                   My love to you both,
                                                          Polly Tassie.

     “P.S. Take care of A. She is almost too pretty just now, but it
     will wear off later, I expect. When I die there may be a little bit
     more for her, but not much as I am about to incur some very heavy
     expenses. God bless you all.”

She read the note through, took a cheque book out of her bag, and made
out a draft to Annabelle for a thousand pounds and another for Jennifer
for one hundred. She took time to scan them carefully and check the date
with the calendar. Then she folded them into the letter and addressed
the envelope to Miss J. Tassie. By Hand.

She had put the envelope into her pocket and was rising to shut up the
desk when she heard Annabelle pass the door and go upstairs, and at the
same time her glance fell on the small steel box on the wall into which
the telephone cable disappeared. It was a chance in a thousand that she
should have noticed it because of an occasional chair standing just in
front of it, but some faint change in the arrangement of the piece of
furniture had caught her attention. She leant forward to touch the
plaited flex with an exploring finger. The cable which had been wrenched
from the box and replaced loosely, came away in her hand. For an instant
she looked at it stupidly and then, turning abruptly, sped out of the
room and up the stairs with the agility of a woman half her age. As she
reached the landing she heard Annabelle’s laugh. It was shy but gay and
innocently flattered.

The colour had gone from Mrs. Tassie’s lips but there was no surprise in
her expression by the time she had opened the door and come face to face
with the man who had been waiting for her in the bright little room.

Gerry was standing on the hearthrug staring at the girl, the expression
of horrified incredulity which had made her laugh still showing in his
face. He looked grey and excited. But the thing about him which startled
the old woman was that he was without jacket or waistcoat, and the
sleeves of his city shirt were rolled up.

As his glance turned slowly towards her the sound of the front-door
buzzer came floating up from the hall, two sharp and determined rings.




Chapter 17

HARD BEHIND HIM


Charlie Luke sat on the edge of the desk in a small private office of
the main C.I.D. room in the new Tailor Street Station, looking more like
a black cat than ever as he listened to the telephone. His head was held
on one side and his eyes were deeply pleased.

The voice at the other end of the wire belonged to his immediate
superior, Chief Superintendent Yeo. It was blunt, as usual, but sounded
content for a change and even conciliatory.

“A party from the lab is on its way down to Canal Road now and the
preliminary report on the ’bus is positive, so I expect Mr. Oates to
call a conference later in the night,” he was saying, referring to the
Assistant Commissioner Crime and conferring an accolade on the
investigation at the same time. “For Pete’s sake keep in touch. Have you
picked up your star witness again yet? Kinder needs his head examined
for turning him loose.”

“Waterfield? No, not yet. But I don’t expect any trouble. We shall see
him again any time now. Meanwhile Kinder did a very thorough job on him.
His statement is full of good things.”

“I know. I’ve got a copy here. By the way, Charlie--”

“Yes?” Luke pricked up his ears. The use of the diminutive was a healthy
sign.

“I’ve been taking a look at your chart of that pet district of yours.”
Yeo was apologising and was being short about it. “I’m inclined to
change my mind. In fact, while I was looking at it I had a hunch
myself.”

“What was that?” Luke bent over backwards to avoid any unfortunate note
of satisfaction.

“Well,” the old man’s grin was almost audible, “you remember the Kent
car dealer?”

“Joseph Pound, found in a chalkpit, pocket case picked up by children in
Garden Green.”

“That’s the man. As soon as I read Waterfield’s statement something in
it rang a bell and I turned up the widow’s deposition.” Yeo was proud of
his memory which was indeed remarkable. “Chad-Horder was the name of one
of the holiday swells she and her husband were drinking with in
Folkestone the night before the crime.”

“Get away!” Luke’s exclamation of delighted surprise was unquestionably
genuine.

“Fact.” Yeo was expanding. “Here it is on the desk before me. By
sticking to your guns you’ve come up with something very interesting, my
boy. I shall be happier when I hear you’ve got your man for questioning,
but don’t let anyone forget that if by chance you’re right in including
the Church Row case you’ll be dealing with a man who has shot his way
out once and may do so again. Don’t let anybody take risks. We’re
understaffed as it is.”

“Quite,” Luke said slowly. “I don’t know if that particular guess is
going to stick. Mr. Campion had an idea about it but....”

“Ah, Campion.” Old Yeo had the grace to sound guilty. “I had a word with
him this afternoon. He was coming up to see you. I don’t know if he
did.”

“Oh yes, he’s been with me ever since.” Any note of reproach was
gratifyingly absent. “He’s sloped off now, I don’t know where. He
muttered something and next time I looked there he wasn’t.”

“That’s Albert.” Yeo was amused. “He’ll be back. He doesn’t miss much.
You’ll find he’s had an idea and trotted off to test it. Well, good luck
to you. I still think you’re asking too much if you try to link _all_
those cases of yours. You haven’t a ha’porth of solid evidence in one of
them yet. Concentrate on the most promising and scrap the rest. Those
people Lettice and Reginald Fisher, who may or may not have gone off to
South Africa, for instance, I shouldn’t waste any more time on them.”

“Perhaps you’re right, Guv’nor, but I’ve picked up one little thing that
reminded me of them. Do you remember that in that inquiry the niece
said she had sent her aunt a white plastic handbag?”

“Was it a distinctive sort of a bag?”

“No, a chain store product.”

“Then I certainly shouldn’t worry about it. You’ve got more than enough
on your plate. I suppose Donne is concentrating on the Minton Terrace
shooting? That’s your best bet. Has he struck anything yet?”

“Nothing conclusive, but it’s all very healthy. Donne has a girl friend
of Chad-Horder’s with him now. She’s a woman called Edna Cater who runs
the Midget Club.”

“I know. Just round the back there. Well, she was handy to the crime.
But all these cases without any real evidence are very tricky. I won’t
keep you any longer. Mention to Donne that what we most need are details
of any further aliases. There’s nothing on the files under Chad-Horder
and nothing relevant under Hawker, but a chap like that could have half
a dozen names, and there’s always a chance that he’s been shopped under
one of them.”

He hung up and Luke ducked his blue chin into his neck and grinned to
himself as he heard the wire clear. Then, gathering up his folder, he
went into the next office where Chief Inspector Donne, attended by a
clerk and a sergeant, was interviewing Edna.

She was seated in the tub chair before the desk, her back straight and
her suit and hair-do as crisp and formal as if she were in uniform. Luke
shot a single glance at her and decided that he knew the type. It was
not a bad one but in his experience seldom as hard boiled as it
pretended. She was trying hard, he thought. She looked scared but was
determined to keep the party sweet.

Donne was putting her through it steadily, leaning towards her across
the desk, his watchful eyes never leaving her face.

“About those oil drums which Chad-Horder described as making a wall to
hide a racing car,” he began abruptly as he heard Luke come in. “Do you
remember if he gave you any picture of them? Did he say what colour they
were?”

“I think he said they were black.” She looked bewildered. “I doubt if
they ever existed. I don’t think that this boy Richard who was with
him, and who made this long statement to you, understood Gerry at all.
Gerry was romancing. He didn’t even expect to be believed.”

“I see. He’s a liar, is he?”

“I’m not saying that,” she said. “He embroiders things to make them more
amusing, that’s all.” She was appealing to him to understand her, the
suppliance in her eyes looking extraordinary amid the make-up. “You must
know the sort of man I mean--charming, moneyed, good family....”

“Good family? Do you know his family?”

“No, I told you just now I don’t know any of his people, although I’ve
known him nearly five years. I don’t even know if he has any. He keeps
all the private side of his life very quiet. Some people do.”

“Why say good family, then?”

“Because it’s obvious. He’s easy, assured, generous, attractive.”

“_You_ find him attractive?”

“Yes, I’m fond of him.”

Donne turned to Luke who took the vacant chair beside him at the desk.
The dark man with his powerful body and shrewd cockney eyes was very
masculine and his approach was straight man to woman with very little of
the policeman.

“You still feel like that, even after the walk-out on you this
afternoon?” he enquired.

She shrugged her shoulders. “I can take it. I was just so pleased to see
him. He hadn’t been in for a couple of months.”

“What do you think about him at this minute?”

“I think he’s in a jam and I’m prepared to do anything I can for him.”

“Do you know why we want him?”

“I can guess.”

“Can you?” He was surprised. “Let’s have it. We won’t hold it over you.”

“I don’t care if you do.” Her smile took the offence out of the retort.
“I think that Warren Torrenden, the racing motorist, has made a charge
against him. Something about a car or spare parts for one. I don’t know
what it is so I can’t judge, but if I were you I’d make sure that I
listened to the most reliable one of the two.”

Luke did not speak but sat looking at her inquisitively, as if he could
not make up his mind.

“Yes,” he said at last, “yes, well I hope we’re not going to upset you,
Miss Cater. Have you ever seen this before?”

He had taken up a brown paper packet from the desk and now removed the
wrappings to reveal the remains of the white handbag which he had
brought from the Dump. She glanced at it idly and at first he thought
she was going to shake her head. But suddenly something about the ragged
fold of plastic caught her attention and she put out her hand. She did
not take the exhibit but turned it over on the desk and ran a strong
white forefinger over a series of small flaws on the lower edge at the
front.

“I’m not sure,” she said at last, eyeing them cautiously as if she
feared a trap. “Is it the one that was in the cottage at Bray that Mr.
Chad-Horder rented? It was some time ago, you know, over two years.”

“Is that the cottage that was mentioned in the conversation Waterfield
overheard this afternoon?”

“It is.” The colour was dark in her face. “A client of Mr. Chad-Horder’s
and his wife had been living there, waiting to go abroad. There were
several of their things strewn about. I think this bag was one of them.
Now I suppose they’ve come back years later complaining because
everything they left behind wasn’t sent on? It’s extraordinary how
people do make demands on comparative strangers.”

Her voice had risen indignantly and Luke sat eyeing her.

“What makes you think it’s the bag you saw at the cottage?”

“Those needle holes in the plastic.” She nodded towards the white fold
of material. “When I first saw it there were two gilt initials just
there. Someone had tried to stitch them instead of sticking them on and
they were hanging by a couple of threads. I thought they’d get lost so I
cut them off and put them in the bag for safety. Gerry said he was going
to send everything out to them.”

“What were the initials?”

“One was an L and the other was an F, I think.”

“How can you remember after all that time?”

Her slate-grey eyes with the darker edge round the irises met his own
resentfully.

“Well ... it was another woman who had stayed in the house.”

Luke returned to the notes on the desk. “Fair enough,” he said. “Did you
ever hear her name?”

“No. Gerry wouldn’t tell me. That’s why I remembered the initials, I
suppose.”

Chief Inspector Donne cleared his throat.

“Was the bag in this condition when you saw it at the cottage?”

“No, the lining was in it then and it was ready for use. I didn’t
examine it, but there was a handkerchief in it and a compact, I think,
and--oh--one or two ordinary things.” The thick cream skin of her
forehead had wrinkled and he bent across the desk towards her.

“What are you remembering?”

She looked up and smiled in a startled way. “I was remembering that I
thought it rather--rather _poor_” she said frankly.

“Not smart?”

“No, not that. Just poor. Poor for a client’s wife.”

There was a pause. Luke dropped his hand on Donne’s wrist and the other
man nodded, and his pencil traced a phrase on the blotter. ‘_Gal hasn’t
a clue._’

Edna took advantage of the pause to collect herself.

“Of course, it could be only carelessness on his part,” she announced.
“You do recognise that, I hope? Gerry wouldn’t steal a handbag. He’s not
that sort of person. That’s ridiculous. Wait until you meet him.”

Luke did not look at her. “How does he make his living?”

“I can’t tell you exactly.” She conveyed that she could make a very good
guess. “I told you he never discusses his affairs. I should say he does
a bit of car dealing, tunes up racing cars for other people, and has a
private income.” There was a faint primness, an old-maidish satisfaction
on the last word which stood out like a visible flaw on her hard façade
of sophistication.

The two policemen eyed her as if they could actually see her feet
leaving the ground.

“Is he sometimes much more flush with money than at others?” Donne
suggested.

“That’s true of everybody but it’s particularly so of him. Sometimes
he’s--oh--quite absurdly over-generous and extravagant.”

“Are these intervals regular?”

“How? Oh, I see. No, I don’t think it’s when the dividends come in. It’s
when the deals go through, I fancy.”

Luke sighed. He had a kindly disposition.

“At the time of the cottage at Bray, was that one of the flush periods?”

“I’ll say it was.” She looked suddenly gay and mischievous.

“I hadn’t seen him for ages, and then he came in saying times had been
fearful but that he’d got something cooking up. When I saw him again it
had all gone through. The client had sailed earlier than expected and
Gerry had got the cottage on his hands. That’s one thing about him, he
doesn’t worry you with his worries. We had a wonderful time. There was
money to burn for a bit.”

Luke rose slowly to his feet and stood looking down at her. His face was
sombre but not unkind.

“Did you ever wonder what kind of a deal it was?” he said slowly. “Money
to burn. Did he get that from commission on a deal with a man whose wife
had a cheap plastic handbag, with initials which she tried to stitch on
herself?”

There was silence and the atmosphere of the little office was
unpleasantly noticeable. The woman sat watching the Superintendent with
that particular look on her face which indicates that a half-thought
question has been dragged out into the open.

“What do you mean?” There was no bravado there, no defiance, only the
simple query. “What are you saying?”

“How much did he get from them? If it was a lot, was it all they had?”

“But it couldn’t have been. They were going away by sea and....”

“Did they go? The woman left her handbag.”

They were unprepared for her sudden movement. She struggled up out of
her chair and stood breathing heavily, as if she found it difficult.

“Do you mean ... like Haigh?”

“What makes you say that?” Luke had crossed round from the desk and was
holding her arm as if he feared she might fall. “Why did you say
‘Haigh’?”

“I didn’t. I.... Oh, it couldn’t be! Oh, my God.”

Luke lowered her gently into the chair and put a cigarette in her mouth,
which he lit.

“Now come on,” he said, “be a good girl and clear your mind. We shan’t
involve you if we can help it but you must do all you can. Come on, what
made you say ‘Haigh’?”

She pushed her hand through her hair, ruffling the hard shell into
untidiness.

“Haigh was the man who--who put--who got rid of--who bought ...
acid....”

“Forget the acid.” Luke was talking firmly and gently as if to a child.
“Haigh was the soft-spoken friendly little crook who went the one stage
further. Most crooks will take anything and everything from their
victims, except the one final item. Haigh was the chap who thought that
one final refinement was silly.”

“Don’t!” The word was a suppressed scream and she sat looking at him
wildly. “That’s what Gerry said. That was his word.”

“Silly? About Haigh?”

She nodded, her eyes growing darker and her mouth pallid round the edges
of the lipstick.

“We were discussing him one night and I said the man must have been mad,
and Gerry said no, he was simply not silly, and that if he hadn’t lost
his nerve and confessed, he’d be alive today still picking up a good
living in a logical ... Oh no, don’t take any notice of me, I don’t know
anything.”

“I should tell us anything you do.” Donne made the recommendation sound
friendly. “We shall get to know the whole story in the end and we’re
clumsy beggars. We make less mess if we’re helped. Unless you still want
to try to shield him, of course.”

“Shield ...” She spoke the word as if she had never heard it before. “Oh
no, I couldn’t. I couldn’t. Not if it’s that.”

Her voice ceased abruptly and she sat staring ahead of her, all traces
of charm and femininity in her face giving place to the stark
practicalness of a human being confronted by the reality of
self-preservation.

“You’d better look out if you take him,” she said. “He was carrying a
gun this afternoon. I felt it when he kissed me.”

Donne glanced sharply at Luke and the thumb of his right hand turned
upwards. When he returned to Edna he was very gentle.

“We shall want a statement, Miss Cater,” he said, “but take your time. I
should just sit here quietly and have a cup of tea if I were you. Then
you can tell the sergeant the whole story and he’ll read it over to you
before you sign it.” He smiled reassuringly at her stricken face. “Don’t
worry too much. We shall be as discreet as we can. We don’t go out of
our way to make life difficult for anybody with a job to hold down.”

Luke said nothing and indeed had no chance to do so, for at that moment
a Detective Constable slipped quietly into the room and spoke with his
back turned carefully towards the witness.

“Will you come outside, sir?” he murmured. “They’ve picked up the
Lagonda.”




Chapter 18

IT OCCURRED TO MR. CAMPION


Mr. Vick had installed his telephone in a small pantry at the back of
the barber’s shop, choosing it, no doubt, because his butterfly mind had
noted that it was about the same size as a public booth. Since the
cupboard was also used to store certain unguents and as a hide for the
charwoman’s equipment, it was not entirely satisfactory.

The uniformed Inspector making an interim report to his headquarters was
forced to stand with one foot in a pail and his eyes on a level with
rows of bottles of hair restorer, an expedient irritating to any man as
bald as he.

“To return to the subject of the car. A Lagonda, details as previously
stated,” he was saying carefully. “It is drawn up outside the shop here,
as given in my preliminary message. The boot is unlocked and is empty.
There are, however, eight bricks ... what? Oh, they’re red and they’re
old. Just ordinary bricks. Eight bricks which are arranged as wedges
behind the tyres of the car. The road slopes. Have you got that?”

He listened while the paragraph was read back to him, and continued.

“There are a number of wooden boxes of varying size in the near
vicinity. In this street it is the custom of shopkeepers to put their
refuse out on the pavement at night and amongst heaven knows how much
other junk there are several crates. The refuse is collected in the
early morning.... You’ll send a couple of chaps? Okay.” He sighed. “The
barber lives in a two-room flat above the shop,” he went on. “I shall
bring him in as soon as he’s in a reasonable condition. At the moment
he’s upstairs, drunk as a lord, and my blokes are working on him. He has
no idea how long he has been home, full stop.”

There was an aggrieved query from the other end of the line and he
relaxed.

“Sorry, Jack, but I’m clearing my own mind. I’ve got a story out of the
man but it’s no sort of statement. Either he’s more than ordinarily
plastered or he’s a damned funny little man when sober. He says the car
belongs to his dear old friend Major Chad-Horder, whose real name he
doesn’t know although he can take me to a man in a pub who does, and
they’ve been to see Moggie Moorhen together and have been on the stage
with him all the evening. Check that, please. They appear to have
returned home tight and I understand that the Major put his friend to
bed and made up another for himself in the sitting room. After that
point he seems to have vanished. There’s a rug and pillows on the couch
but they’re not warm. There is no sign of him in the house and the front
door is unlocked, so he must have gone out again, presumably on foot.
Have you got that? Right, that’s all for now. I’ll report again.
Goodbye.”

He hung up and his message, when it was re-dressed in official language
and flashed to Tailor Street, presented a single idea to Superintendent
Luke’s experienced ear.

“Hullo,” he said, swinging round on Donne as they stood together in a
corner of the C.I.D. room under the illuminated street map of the
district, “did you hear that? The suspect is rigging up another alibi.”

The Chief Inspector’s eyes opened wide for an instant between their
thick light lashes.

“Busy chap, isn’t he?” he said absently as his mind fastened on the
suggestion and weighed it. “He could be ditching the gun,” he began.

“Why should he? He doesn’t know he’s coming unstuck, unless he’s
psychic.” Luke spoke with savage satisfaction. “Anyhow, wherever he’s
gone, it would appear that he intends to come back, so our chaps can
just sit by the hole and watch like pussy. Tell them softly softly. The
Chief Superintendent is very anxious that we don’t put any further
temptation in his way. As he points out, the recruiting figures are
down.”

As Donne stepped aside to give the necessary orders Luke remained alone
looking at the map. The barber’s shop on the side road off Edge Street
had been ringed with a crimson marker and he could see at a glance just
where it stood in relation to the Garden Green area, down in the
adjoining Division.

It was not in the same manor but it was on the way there and as he stood
tracing the streets which crossed and recrossed in little loops and
squares without pattern or shape, he felt the thrill of catching wind of
the enemy and he began to play with the coins in his pocket so that they
made a music of mounting excitement.

When Donne returned he was still standing there, his neck looking very
long and his head thrust forward. The Chief Inspector returned looking
faintly embarrassed.

“That woman is coming out with the lot,” he observed. “Goodness knows
how much of it will be relevant, she’s holding nothing back. I don’t
think she can know much of value because she had no idea what he was up
to, but the shock has certainly loosened her tongue.”

Luke turned to him. “Is she vindictive?”

“No. It’s awful. She’s dependent on him physically and suddenly finds
...” He left the rest of the sentence in the air and Luke returned to
the map.

“Little to depend upon,” he said primly. “Poor wretched bitch. We’re
trying to comfort her with cups of tea, I suppose. Where the blazes has
that chap _gone_, Henry? There’s a whole section of his activities we
haven’t touched, you know. We’ve only got half the picture. Where’s
Campion?”

“There’s no sign of him yet. He’s a funny chap, isn’t he? More like
himself than one expects, somehow.”

Luke made no comment. He was frowning.

“Campion wasn’t altogether satisfied with the old lady and the pretty
girl at the cock-eyed museum,” he said presently. “I was. I may be
hiding my eyes but I just cannot see either of them involved in anything
of this sort. We could go and rout them out of bed and ask them a lot of
damned silly questions which ought to wait at least until the waiter has
remembered where he saw the old couple the first time.” He hesitated.
“No, I don’t think so,” he said, answering his own question, “I don’t.”

“You took a fancy to them, did you?” said Donne, unaware of
trespassing. “Funny how one does sometimes. Hullo, see who this is?”

Luke glanced up as a splendid figure strolled towards them.

“Wot’cher, Cully,” he said, “how’s the Ambassador?”

Superintendent Cullingford was one of those stolidly handsome men who
appear to be the rule in Security. He and Luke were old friends and each
amused himself by pretending that the other’s was the glamorous job.

“Hullo, Charles, you’re in the thick of it, I see.” Cullingford managed
to sound wistful. “When I stepped out of the lift on this floor I
thought there was a fire, there was so much excitement.” He nodded to
Donne and stroked a magnificent yellow moustache. “Luke still finds it
absorbing even though he can’t hang ’em any more.”

His friend’s dark face became a shade blacker.

“That’s not a very popular line of talk, Cully,” he was beginning when
Donne ventured to reply for himself.

“We’ll hang the chap we’re after now all right,” he said.

“Think so?” Luke sounded spiteful. “At the moment I’m wondering if we’ve
got enough evidence to bring him to trial.”

“It’s murder, is it?” Cullingford made the enquiry as a civility.

“It’s about ten murders,” Luke said, lowering at him. “The bloke is lost
in a snowdrift of suspicion, but snow has a way of melting at the Old
Bailey. If under the new regulations we’ve got to see him sentenced
twice before he’s eligible he may well escape topping. I can’t see the
public standing for two trials for murder, first conviction no hanging,
the second it’s laid on.”

“You don’t like the new legislation?”

Luke began to get angry. “I neither like it nor dislike it,” he said
testily. “Once I’ve delivered the man to the court I reckon my business
is done. I’m the dog. I bring in the bird. I don’t expect to have to
cook him.”

“Oh, what a very interesting point of view.” Cullingford had some of the
manner of the eminent dignitaries whose safety was his care. “Should I
be an impossible nuisance if I bothered you now with the little matter
which has brought me up here looking for you? It won’t take a moment. I
telephoned your own office and they told me where you were. It concerns
an old crime but I thought perhaps I should pass it on.”

He was being long-winded deliberately and there was the ghost of a
twinkle in the back of his eyes. Luke, who was aware he was being
ragged, produced a packet of cigarettes.

“Try one of these, Your Excellency,” he suggested. “They won’t hurt your
throat. Just bung it up solid, I hope. Get on with it, you pompous old
police officer, while we’re still kicking our heels waiting for a
witness.”

“Very well. Have you ever heard ...” Cullingford split the question to
light his cigarette, “...of the Church Row shooting? It happened some
time ago I believe, and concerned a silk-stocking salesman who lost a
glove.” He paused and looked round to find both men staring at him with
fixed expressionless interest. “I don’t bore you, I hope?”

“Not yet. What do you know about that case?”

“Nothing at all. But about twenty minutes ago a very charming friend of
mine ... you must know her, the delightful old lady whose family runs
The Grotto ... told me over the telephone a very curious little story
concerning the glove in that case. She thought nothing of it at the time
but tonight something else happened which sent her into quite a panic.
By the way, I’ve sworn to keep the family out of it.”

“All right, if they’re not involved already.” Luke was not particularly
gracious. “Get on with the something else that happened tonight.”

“Well, that’s another shooting. In Minton Terrace this time. A solicitor
was killed. I’d rather assumed that you would know about it. Don’t you?”

“Not quite as much as we’d like.” Luke spoke cautiously. He was
regarding Cullingford with a sort of superstitious awe. “Does this woman
you know link those two cases?”

“Yes, she does. She has no proof, of course, but she was sufficiently
frightened to get her son to telephone me tonight. As I understand it,
she has an old friend who....”

Luke groaned aloud. “Oh, these old friends,” he said wearily. “I
thought for one blessed moment that you’d come staggering in with a
genuine bone. The friend thinks she may have purchased the gloves, I
suppose, and the friend never could make up her mind if the gloves which
she gave as a present to someone or other (who afterwards turned out to
be a disappointment) were the gloves in the murder mystery. And now when
this new crime occurs the friend....”

“All right, Luke.” Cullingford was frankly huffy. “You know much more
about this sort of case than I do. It’s hardly my province. I merely
pass the story on because I thought it might be of use to you. But if
it’s a commonplace reaction....”

“Sorry, cock, I’m hungry. Takes me that way.” Luke was contrite. “Sit
down and I’ll take the information in a decent copperlike fashion. Name
and address of your friend, please.”

“Mrs. Sybylle Dominique, The Grotto Restaurant, W.1.”

“Thank you, sir. And the name of her friend?”

Superintendent Cullingford was on the point of replying when he was
interrupted by a clerk who came hurrying up to Luke.

“Mr. Albert Campion is on the telephone, sir. He’d like to speak to you
direct if possible.”

The dark man sprang off the desk, and thrust his pencil at Donne.

“Henry, do this, will you? I’ve been waiting all night for Campion.”

Donne did not reply. He was looking doubtfully at the Security man and
Luke, after following his glance, took himself in hand abruptly.

“That’s right,” he said, “that’s right, Henry. You take Campion’s
message. Now, Cully. Sorry for the interruption. What is the name of
your friend’s friend?”

Cullingford took his time. Presently he looked up from the neat pocket
diary which he was studying.

“Her name is Mrs. Polly Tassie,” he said slowly. “That is spelled
T-a-s-s-i-e. The address is Number Seven, Garden Green. I don’t know if
you’ve ever heard of it. It’s an obscure little district just off the
Barrow Road.”

Luke was still staring at him with his lips apart when Donne came back
from the telephone in the adjacent cubicle. He stepped over to Luke and
his discreet murmur was blurred by excitement.

“The old man is on to something. He says to tell you that he remembered
that the bobby in the Barrow Road hospital spoke of seeing _two_ young
people in the Garden Green this morning. It occurred to him, he says,
that if one of them had been Waterfield the inference might be
interesting, so he slid off to the hospital and got a description. It
tallies. He’s now in Edge Street in a call box and he asks that someone
should meet him there?” He paused and his slow grin spread over his
face. “I think his wish should be granted. He says Richard Waterfield
has just walked up to the front door of a house you know of, Number
Seven, Garden Green. Do you recognise the address? It means nothing to
me.”




Chapter 19

PREPARATION FOR AN ACCIDENT


In the upstairs sitting-room of the house in Garden Green, whose gay
colours seemed cold and unnaturally bright in the hard light, there was
a period of complete silence after the front door bell had ceased to
ring. Polly, who was just inside the door, stood frozen, her chin up and
her eyes fixed on the man on the rug.

Annabelle was still holding the tray and the flowered beakers upon it,
the light burrowing into the depths of her hair, making the pale brown
gold.

Gerry was listening. All the suppressed fire of the morning had gone out
of him. His skin was grey and smudged and the hollows round his eyes and
beside his temples were black-shadowed.

“Who’s that, Polly?”

He spoke very quietly and the girl, aware that something was amiss but
completely underestimating it, set down the tray with a rattle.

“I’ll go.”

“No.” The others spoke together and the man kept his eyes on the old
woman.

“Who is it? Have you any idea at all?”

The bell rang again, less aggressively this time, a single long-drawn
buzz, and Polly’s face cleared.

“Oh, it’s Miss Rich,” she said. “That’s about it, Miss Rich, my old
neighbour from down the road. She’s come for her magazine. She must have
seen my light in the office just now.”

“Would she come as late as this?” His question was enquiry, not
argument, and unconsciously her voice grew soothing as she reassured
him.

“Later, I’m afraid, if she saw I was up. Old people are owls, you know.
I get this paper on Wednesdays, you see, and by Thursday she expects me
to have read it.” Her relief was completely convincing and the other old
woman became as real to them as if they could see her standing on the
doorstep huddling a coat about her.

Polly was looking for the magazine and found it where she expected,
under the sofa cushions. It was a thin but gay little folder with a dog
and a baby on the cover, and she took it up and went back across the
room with it.

“I remembered it this afternoon when I saw she’d left me a bit of
watercress on the kitchen sill,” she said, “but it slipped my mind
again. Poor girl, she can’t sleep.”

“Don’t let her in.” He made it a warning and her eyes turned towards him
again.

“No, of course not. I’ll say I’m tired. If I shut this door and you keep
quiet she won’t know anyone’s here. It’s only if she thinks I have
visitors and I’m going to be up anyhow that she insists on coming in for
a chat. I’ll just slip this out to her and come straight back.”

She went out and as the door closed behind her, the patent
draught-excluder upon it slid into its copper rim and shut the room
away, secret and silent at the back of the house.

Polly moved quickly. She was very frightened and the single flight of
stairs leading down to the front hall made her breathless, so that her
voice sounded unsteady and alarmed as she tugged back the bolts.

“Don’t ring again, Ellie. I’ve got it here, dear.”

She swung the door open at last. “I was just off to bed ... Who is it?”

The final phrase was whispered as she caught sight of Richard’s neat
round head silhouetted against the street-lit arch of the porch.

“I’m sorry to disturb you, but could I possibly see Annabelle?” The
demand came out in a shamefaced murmur. He had made the journey in the
spirit of mingled anxiety and knight-errantry, but now, at the moment of
arrival, he felt suddenly silly and embarrassed.

“Who are you?” She was still whispering and he noticed her glance
nervously behind her.

“My name is Waterfield. I....”

“I remember.” She opened the door a little wider to let the light from
the hallway fall upon his hair, so that she might see its colour.

He blushed at the recognition and started again.

“I’ve known Annabelle all her life. I wouldn’t have come round so late
if the telephone hadn’t suddenly got disconnected. I rang until....”

“Hush.” Polly came out into the porch, pulling the door nearly close
behind her. “I’ve got no time,” she said earnestly. “I don’t want to
explain but I can’t let you in.”

“I do want to see her,” he said quickly.

“Yes.” She was agreeing with him. “Yes, I was thinking. Could you put
Annabelle on a train for me?”

“Tonight?”

“As soon as possible. I want her to be at home by the morning. If I get
her out could you do the rest?”

“Of course.” She was aware of him staring at her suspiciously, but her
hand was trembling on the latch and her ears were strained to catch the
least sound from the sitting-room. “The moment I can get her to go up to
bed I’ll send her down by the fire escape.”

As a statement it was idiotic, but he caught the note of urgency.

“Where is that?” He was whispering too.

“Just here.” She indicated the side of the house opposite to the museum.
“You’ll have to climb over or go right round to the other street. Wait
at the foot of the stairs and I’ll send her down the instant I can. I’m
very grateful to you. God knows what I’d have done without you. I
daren’t wait now, dear. Hurry. Goodnight.”

The door was closing behind her when she thrust it open again.

“You won’t make a noise, will you? That’s vital.” She paused and he
understood that she was struggling with a confidence. Suddenly out it
came. “Tell them that whatever they do they’re not to rush the house.”

This time the door shut firmly behind her.

Richard came out of the porch thoroughly alarmed. Whatever he had
expected of Annabelle’s aunt it was not this. Obviously something was
terribly wrong in the house and his suspicion that Gerry might have gone
there had deepened into a certainty. However, his only real concern was
Annabelle’s safety and it was with relief that he had recognised a
fellow feeling in Polly. He turned to the right across the front garden.

The rain was threatening again rather than coming down in earnest and a
gusty, fidgety wind had sprung up, plucking the last of the leaves from
the plane trees and ruffling the shrubs in front of the house. The
street was deserted and the houses opposite dark.

He found the fire escape at once. It was a spiderweb of iron, festooning
the blank side of the building nearest its left-hand neighbour. He could
not reach it immediately because the entrance, which had evidently been
there before the museum lot had been added to the property, was now
bricked up, leaving him with a wall to circumnavigate. It was nine or
ten feet high, hung with the evergreen variety of honeysuckle, slightly
wet and abominably dirty, so he went out into the street and down to the
museum door. As he feared, it was bolted and he had to come back to the
wall.

As he swarmed up the creeper it occurred to him that the return journey
with Annabelle was not going to be easy, but he decided to meet that
difficulty when he came to it, and presently swung his legs over into
the narrow cul-de-sac to drop quietly to the gravel below.

Meanwhile Polly had her foot on the staircase before she recollected the
magazine still in her hand. She hurried into the office with it, thrust
it out of sight in a drawer in the desk, and was back in the hall just
in time.

The door at the top of the stairs had opened abruptly and the angle of
light appearing, gibbet shaped and vivid in the gloom, made her jump.

“Is that you, Aunt Polly?” Her silhouetted form, looking stiff in
Jenny’s tailored coat, Annabelle appeared looking down at her. She was
clutching her beaker of milk and hesitated uncertainly. “I thought I’d
go to bed, if you don’t mind. I’m rather tired.”

She was frightened. Polly was as aware of it as if the child had stood
there screaming her head off, and she came toiling up the stairs to her.

“A very good idea,” she said as she arrived panting. “Wait a minute.
Here’s the note for your sister in case I forget it in the morning. Take
great care of it and give it to her with my love.” She noticed with
relieved astonishment that her voice was quite normal. It sounded
friendly and assured, and the breathlessness of course was due to the
exertion. “I’ll just see you up to your room.”

“Oh no, please don’t.” The objection was frankly vigorous, “I know where
it is. You showed me this afternoon.”

“But I’d like to.”

“Oh, cut it out, Polly.” Gerry was exasperated. He was out of sight in
the bright room, behind the angle of the door, but yet very close to
them, only a few feet away. “Come and get me a drink and let the kid go
to bed if she wants to.”

“I’m coming, dear. I just want to scribble down an address on this note
while I think of it. I shan’t be a minute.” As she was speaking she had
taken the envelope for Jenny out of her coat pocket and now produced a
stub of pencil from the handbag on her arm. She turned to the ledge
which ran across the shallow recess at the foot of the second flight of
stairs and began to write on it, while the girl lingered unwillingly
beside her.

‘Go out by fire escape. Landing window. Richard is down there. Keep
quiet.’

“There,” she said briskly, “can you read my writing?”

“Polly, for God’s sake.” There was an impatient movement in the room and
the woman thrust the letter into the girl’s hand and moved, so that she
was between her and the door. He did not come out, however, and
Annabelle glanced at the message. Polly saw the expression change on her
round face and caught her quick upward glance and nod of relieved
comprehension; then she turned and went up the staircase like an arrow.
Just before she disappeared into the greyness she remembered and looked
back.

It was the last Polly saw of her, the pathetically grateful smile and
nervous little wave of affection and goodbye.

“Goodnight,” she called after her. “God bless.” She turned away and
went into the sitting-room. “What was that about?” she demanded.

He wasted no time by pretending not to understand her.

“Stiff-necked little beast,” he said. “I asked her what the hell she was
doing here and she took offence. She says she’s one of Freddy’s
brother’s family, is that right?”

“Yes. Do you mind?” She was taking off her coat and he came over
automatically and received it from her and threw it over a chair in the
corner.

“No,” he said mildly. “She took me by surprise, that was all.”

The old woman’s eyes followed her wrap. His own trench coat lay beneath
it but there was no sign of his jacket and at the moment, so far as she
could see, there was no place on him where a gun could hide.

“It was you I came to see,” he went on. “You’re very late. You went to
The Grotto, she told me. How’s the family?”

“Oh, all right, dear. Very well. Just as they always are.”

They were neither of them aware of what was being said. Each was
absorbed by tremendous and separate preoccupations.

Polly was listening for any betraying sound from upstairs and in that
she was the more fortunate. Gerry had not the advantage of an interest
outside himself. There was, so far as he knew, nothing between him and
the project he had in mind. No danger. No need to hurry. The whole night
was before him. The shadow on his face had deepened. He looked dirty
with strain.

“I’ll get us both a drink,” he said suddenly and made a movement.

“No.” Polly stepped between him and the door. “I’m going to have my
milk. If you want anything I’ll get it in a minute. How did you get into
the house? I never gave you a key.”

The sudden belligerence was unlike her and it astonished him. He took a
step backwards and stood looking at her gravely.

“I’ve had one a long time,” he said. “I thought you knew.”

Polly went over to her chair and sat down heavily. “When you had that
set cut for me last year you bought another, I suppose?”

“I bought a second front door key, yes. I thought it might be useful
some time. And it was. I’ve been waiting for you for over an hour.” He
paused. “Wandering about the house, you know.”

She nodded. It was a strange resigned gesture, which again was something
he had not envisaged. She was leaning back against the chintz shell as
high as her head and he saw her face as if he had never seen it before.
It was such a harmless kindly old face. Not at all clever, but mild and
peacefully beautiful in repose. He looked away hastily and there was
silence between them until he forced his smile back and his eyes looked
like a sorry ape’s again. He was strangely loth to hurry and he began to
coax her as he had done so often before.

“Sorry, old lady, it never occurred to me that you would mind. You don’t
really, do you? It was a damned silly thing to do but I knew you and
Freddy so well that I suppose I thought I had some sort of right.”

“Yes,” she said, still in the same flat resigned way which was making
him uneasy, “we’ve been very close, we three. We loved you like a son,
Gerry, and you loved us.” She folded her hands with a gesture of
finality. “And we still do,” she said, “and nothing can be done about
that. Well, now then, run along and fetch yourself what you want from
the dining-room. Nothing for me. I shall drink that milk.”

The man stood eyeing her. She had frightened him for a moment, but she
seemed relaxed and unsuspicious and even, when she glanced at the little
china clock among the figures on the chimney-piece, relieved, as if some
anxiety had been resolved.

He pushed the unformed question behind him and gave his attention to
practical problems. The nightcap waiting already brewed was not in his
programme.

“Very well,” he said soothingly, “just as you like. I’ll take this stuff
down and bring you some fresh. It’s gone cold and disgusting.”

“Oh no!” She was horrified. “Don’t you go and take my last pint. It’s
all I’ve got for the kid’s breakfast in the morning.”

“Then I’ll re-heat this,” he insisted firmly. “Stay where you are and
don’t be so ruddy obstinate.”

He went off with the tray, leaving the door swinging. Polly waited until
she heard the familiar creak of the dining-room step and then rose
quietly to her feet and crept across the room to the chair where the
coats lay. Her hands were clumsy in her nervousness as she fumbled with
the pockets, and when at last she found and drew out the heavy gun it
hung awkwardly from fingers which trembled. The problem of where to hide
it seemed to overwhelm her. It was so much bigger than she had expected
and infinitely more terrible to look at. She realised that it was most
horribly unsafe and every line in her body conveyed her fear and
distaste. With deep relief her glance fell on the big Meissen tureen, a
mass of gilt and little coloured views, which stood in the china cabinet
beside the window. Her own mother had always hidden things there and she
remembered it from her childhood secreting a long line of treasures.

It took her hardly a moment to unlatch the glass doors, lift the ornate
lid, and slide the heavy thing out of sight. Then, shutting the cabinet,
she was turning away when she saw that the window curtains were swaying.
The discovery that the casement was open, and that therefore any sound
the young people might have made by the fire escape just round the
corner of the house could easily have been audible in the room, sent a
net of nervous pain over her face.

She was bolting the window when Gerry came back and set the tray down on
the table again. Besides the beaker there was a glass of scotch and soda
upon it, but although he had removed the skin from the top of the milk
she suspected he had not taken the time to heat it again, despite all
his protestations. Something had happened to upset him. She could see it
in his face.

“What are you doing?” he demanded. “Opening the window?”

“No. Shutting it. It’s cold.”

“Shall I light the fire for you?”

“If you do we mustn’t close the door.” She stood over him while he put a
match to the gas. “Last time the gas man called he warned me it was
dangerous. Those things I had put in here stop the draught completely
and the fire can go out.”

“I know. You told me.” He did not look up and his tone was casual.
“There,” he said, “that’s all right. Sit down in your chair and I’ll
bring you your drink. Polly, that boiler of yours in the kitchen, does
it go out easily?”

“Not unless one tries to burn rubbish in it. It’s no good for that.” She
had been in the act of resuming her seat in the shell-backed chair while
he was still kneeling on the rug, so that she was looking down at him.
Her face was close to his when the significance of her own words
occurred to her. She drew slowly away, down, down, further back into the
upholstery. “_You’ve been trying to burn your jacket. There was blood on
it._”

The voice was not like her own at all. A hideous quality of panic had
dried it into a whisper.

The man sat back on his heels, looking at her, and a strange dark blush
spread over his face, more revealing than any change of expression could
have been.

“What the hell are you talking about?”

It was bluster and she put up a hand to stop him.

“Don’t, dear, don’t. I tried to ring up Matt tonight. I know.”

He remained where he was, kneeling before her chair, and there was a
moment of indecision, fleeting to him but to her as deliberate as a film
in slow motion, while he chose the line to take. Finally he took her
hand.

“You’re making a silly mistake, old girl,” he said. “You don’t know what
you’re talking about and nor do I. I don’t know Matt, do I?”

She sat forward and looked into his face to see if he was lying. It was
a manœuvre of the nursery and he met her stare with eyes which just then
were like an animal’s without the spark behind them.

“When you look like that there’s no one there,” she said, “but that’s
not true always. Sometimes when I look into your face, Gerry, I can
still see the lively boy that old Freddy and I were so fond of.”

“That’s right, Polly, while you love me I’m alive and kicking.” He sat
back on his heels once more. He was deeply relieved and was laughing,
but the strange dark colour had not entirely faded from his face. “When
you look in my eyes, darling,” he said, “d’you know what you see? You
see yourself. You’re the life in me.”

“No I don’t.” She spoke with sudden vigour. “I see you, my boy. There’s
not much that’s for ever in you, Gerry, but there’s still a man there
and not a snake, please God. I’m afraid, though, terribly afraid. Gerry,
I know about the gloves. That glove we saw in the paper was your glove,
one of the pair I gave you. You shot those people in Church Row.”

It was his own turn to shrink away. The dull, orange blush returned but
this time he did not bother to make denials.

“If you knew, you connived, you approved,” he said, and added, since
even to his own ears the accusation sounded absurd, “you hid your eyes.
You’re like that. You deceive yourself very easily. You keep all that
crashing junk of Freddy’s because you think it must be wonderful, since
he collected it, yet you know perfectly well that it’s vulgar, tasteless
and a bore. Anything goes if it’s done by someone you’re fond of, that’s
your creed.”

“That isn’t true. You’re changing the subject. You’re trying to muddle
me. Oh, Gerry, _they’re going to catch you_.”

He cocked an eye at her. “They won’t, you know.” Now that she was
reacting as he had thought she might if ever she discovered him, he
dropped his attack. He appeared completely confident. “I’m careful. I’m
like a good racing driver. I never take a risk. I’ve got no ties and no
rules. I’m so safe it’s boring.”

She sat listening to him, horrified and absorbed. It was as though, on
looking at last at the Gorgon’s head, it had indeed turned her to stone.
She was dead to the gay room, to the fleeing children, to the blessed
ordinary programme of sleeping and waking, lost in a single dreadful
effort to comprehend.

“But it was Matt threatening to prosecute that scared you. And in Church
Row you shot because you were frightened. All you did you did in panic,
Gerry.” She was appealing to him in the teeth of her own intelligence to
make the mitigating claim.

He sat on the rug frowning, as if he found the recollection shadowy.

“Church Row was the beginning,” he said at last. “That was the start.
That didn’t count. The others were different.”

“What others? Gerry ... there hasn’t been another besides poor Matt?”

“What? No, of course not. There hasn’t been any, ever.” He was laughing
at her, treating her as he had done a thousand times before over less
important issues. “You are inventing all this. This is in _your_ mind.”
He was thrashing about, turning this way and that. “It’s hysteria, old
dear. Dreams.” He paused suspiciously, warned by her expression. “What
have you remembered, Polly?”

“Listen.” She was struggling to control her breathing. “A Superintendent
of police came here today.”

“Oh. What did he want?” He spoke lightly and she found his assumed
casualness terrifying.

“Nothing, as it happened. He was disappointed, I saw it. Some witness
was confused about where he had seen two wax figures before and the
local police thought he might have noticed them in our museum.”

“Did you tell him I’d taken them?”

“No. He wasn’t very interested in what had happened to them. All he
wanted to know was if they had ever existed. If I know the police
they’ll be sending the witness along to see if the place recalls
anything to him.”

Gerry sat looking at the fire, his eyes round and without expression,
his lips parted slightly.

“A chance in eight million,” he said softly. “Tenacious clots, aren’t
they? It won’t help them. I may have to alter things down there a bit to
stop argument, but even if I didn’t they couldn’t prove a thing.”

Polly did not speak at once. She was huddled in her chair where she
seemed to have shrunk as her suspicions became relentless certainty.
Only her blue eyes were still very bright.

“That night when it rained you sent me the taxi,” she said at last. “I
knew that in my heart. And when I got the postcard telling me quite
unnecessarily that you were somewhere else that night, I was even more
certain. But I wouldn’t, I couldn’t believe it. That country ’bus with
the old wax figures in it to stop questions, that was the sort of idea
_you’d_ have, Gerry. I thought that when I first read it, but I shut my
eyes to it. I sat here and prayed to Jesus that I was getting a bit
touched, living alone imagining nonsense.”

He put a hand on her arm and shook it not without kindness.

“You ruddy silly old thing,” he said softly. “Why don’t you shut up?”

She did not answer him and after a while he went on. He spoke very
reasonably and in an intimate conversational way, as if he were making a
business confidence.

“I’m in no danger at all, Polly. There’s never any need to worry about
me. You see, I’m careful and I’m thorough always, every moment of the
time. I keep my feet on the ground and my eyes open and I never forget a
possibility. I’ve never needed an alibi, yet I’ve always had one you
know. Besides, I have no sentiment to make me shrink from any move when
the need arises. Even if a miracle happened and the police came to
suspect me, they’d never prove anything. I clear up as I go.”

Polly rubbed her hands over her face as if to brush away cobwebs.

“But to _kill_,” she whispered. “To _murder_, Gerry.”

He scowled and scrambled to his feet. He was red and irritable.

“That’s a damned silly term. Murder is a word, a shibboleth. People get
killed every day and sometimes it’s called murder and sometimes it
isn’t. Sometimes it’s war and sometimes it’s accident, sometimes it’s
... well, it’s just the logical conclusion of a sequence of events.
You’re trying to make something metaphysical of it, setting it up as
the one unforgivable crime. That’s hocus-pocus. If you’re prepared to
strip everything else from a man, why not finish the job logically and
take his life? You’re going to sit there and tell me God wouldn’t like
it, I suppose. Is that it?”

Polly struggled to sit up in her chair and there was a flash of the old
authority in her eyes when she faced him.

“I don’t know about God,” she said, “but I can tell you one thing. It’s
_men_ who won’t have murder. God’s first commandment doesn’t concern
murder, but it’s the first crime in man’s law all right. If a man is a
man with a spirit, and not a poor beast who hasn’t one, he won’t put up
with murder even _if he’s a murderer himself_. Men who murder turn
against themselves and commit suicide by giving themselves away. They
don’t want to, but they can’t help it. It’s in the make-up, born there.
You said you were finding it boring. That’s the beginning.”

“For God’s sake, Polly, be quiet, and don’t talk such cracking rot.”

“I can’t. _Murder will out_, Gerry. _That’s what it means._” There was a
moment of stillness after the words like the silence after a
thunderclap. The terrifying idea took the man by surprise and he escaped
into anger. He swung away from her with an effort which contracted the
muscles at the sides of his temples and drove the blood out of his face.

“It’s time for these,” he announced, turning to the drinks on the table.
“I’ve also learnt to keep my temper, old girl. That’s lesson A. No
anger, no feeling, nothing to get in the way.”

He handed her the beaker which was on a saucer and frowned as he saw
that some of the milk had spilled over.

“Sorry about that,” he said. “The old hand isn’t as steady as it ought
to be. Drink up. I put some whisky in it.”

Polly took the beaker obediently, her glance resting on his face. He
looked older than she had ever seen him, she thought, the lines deeper,
the muscles more pronounced. There was sweat standing out on his
forehead and she was relieved to see it, despite her sense of paralysed
dismay. She comforted herself; at least he was alive to it all, still
there.

She sipped the milk and made a face, but drank it down as if it were
medicine.

“You shouldn’t have done that. It’s filthy,” she said absently. “The kid
must have put sugar in as well, or salt or something, and the whisky
makes it worse. Look, Gerry, I’ve been thinking. Whether you like to
believe it or not, sooner or later we’re going to need money for the
lawyers. They won’t all be like poor old Matt. They’ll have to be paid.
Well, I’ve got it, and when you need it both Freddy and I would never
hesitate....”

He made a gesture of blind exasperation but she persisted.

“Don’t look like that, dear. We’ve got to face things. I’m telling you
this because I want you to know I’ll see you through, so don’t do
anything barmy like trying to run for it, or ... or ... thinking you can
do again what you did at Church Row. You can’t shoot your way out all
the time.”

She sat looking up at him, the empty beaker on her knee. She was mild
and gentle and kindly, and her affection for him transfigured her face.
He remained staring at her, an extraordinary conflict growing in his
eyes, part apprehension, part eagerness, part passionate despair.

“You’d have given me away,” he burst out at last, dropping on the rug
before her, putting his arms round her, and peering into her face.
“Admit it. You couldn’t have helped it. You and the kid between you,
you’re like glass. You can’t hide a thing. Can you? Can you?”

Polly closed her eyes tightly and opened them again. An expression of
childlike astonishment had appeared on her face.

“I can’t see you properly,” she said. “It’s funny. I feel ... oh, Gerry!
_The milk._ What have you done? What is it? The chloral? It was still in
the chest.”

“Darling, it’s all right, it’s all right. Don’t be frightened. It’s only
a little. Only enough to put you out.”

He was agonised, weeping even, suffocated by the relentless compulsion.
Polly looked very earnestly and stupidly into his face, so close to her
own.

“I ... am the last thing you love,” she said thickly, struggling with
the drug as its waves broke over her. “If ... you ... kill me, Gerry,
you will lose contact with ... your kind. There’ll be nothing ... to
keep you alive. You’ll wither like a leaf off a tree.”




Chapter 20

BETRAYAL


Annabelle came quickly down the fire escape in the rain, her cautious
feet making no sound on the wet iron. Richard saw her white face in the
darkness and heard her sigh as her hand touched his shoulder. She let
herself drop gratefully into the arms he held up for her, and returned
his squeeze with a wholeheartedness which warmed him with a glow to last
a lifetime.

“What happened?” He was whispering but she made a warning movement and
he seized her bag with one hand and, putting his other arm round her
shoulders, led her round the back of the house under the single lighted
window. In the few minutes he had been waiting he had explored the
position and had discovered that, as he had feared, to return the way he
had come was going to be impossible. However, the narrow path led
through an archway into the adjoining plot where the museum stood, and
he suspected that apart from the entrance to the collection there was a
second way out through the gardens to the other road at the back of the
houses.

By now it was raining hard in the city way, which to Annabelle’s country
ears was extraordinarily noisy, the water drumming on the roofs and
gurgling in pipes and gulleys. They could just see the path, white in
the gloom, as it ran round beside the kitchen door just below the little
passageway which led from the house to the collection. Then it followed
the museum buildings, presumably right round to the entrance.

As they came round the arch and huddled under the wall he bent closer to
her.

“Was Gerry there?”

“Yes. Waiting for us when we got in. What do you know about him?”

“Not enough. What happened?”

“I don’t know. He was just furious to see me. I thought he was going to
kill me.”

Richard grunted. “I don’t think it’s quite as sensational as that.”

“I do.” Annabelle’s practical young voice quivered. “Aunt Polly was
petrified about something. Richard, I think we ought to tell the
police.”

“No, we won’t do that.” His smile was wry. “I’ve had one little chat
with the police about being on enclosed premises tonight. I don’t think
we’ll risk another. No, you stand in this doorway and try and keep out
of the wet, and I’ll go and see if there’s a back gate to this place.”

He left her standing in the shallow porch of the side door to the
museum, the one through which Gerry had come that morning to turn off
the ‘Crossing the Bar’ mechanism for her. As she leaned back against it,
getting more and more wet, it occurred to her that she did not remember
Polly locking this door when they had gone round fastening up together
after Superintendent Luke and Mr. Campion had left.

She tried the handle cautiously and was rewarded by a waft of warm
camphory air as the door slid open. She remained just inside, waiting
for Richard.

He came at last and stepped in gratefully beside her. His face was
glistening with water and there was a cape of damp on his shoulders.

“Thank goodness for this,” he said softly. “We’ll have to wait for a
bit, I’m afraid. The whole blessed place appears to be surrounded by
police. There’s a carload just under the wall in front here and at least
two bobbies are hanging about in a sort of alley which leads from this
to the other back gardens.”

He could not see her but he felt her shiver in the dark.

“Are they after that man?”

“I expect so. We’d better keep absolutely quiet in here until the
hullabaloo is over, and then I promised I’d put you straight on a
train.”

“What will they do? Rush the place?”

He did not answer. Polly’s final injunction had returned to him.

“What are you worrying about?” Annabelle was removing her coat. “I
should take off yours, if I were you. If we’re not to be caught and
questioned, there’s no reason why we should get cold. How just like Aunt
Polly. She knew it was going to happen and wanted to keep me out of it,
I suppose.”

“That’s the important thing.” Richard seemed to have made up his mind.
“We’ll shut this door and lie low. They must know he’s here, mustn’t
they?”

“Of course they do.” Annabelle had seated herself on the edge of the
centre dais. “Otherwise they wouldn’t be here, would they? Come over and
wait. Would you care to sit in an elephant or a giraffe?”

While the two were settling themselves, on the opposite side of the
road, in a bed-sitting room in one of the unrestored houses a little
lower down the street, Mr. Campion, Superintendent Luke and Detective
Sergeant Picot from the Barrow Road Station, in whose Division they were
now operating, were listening to Miss Rich. This was Polly’s old
neighbour whom she had expected to find when she went down to the door
to answer Richard’s ring.

The bed-sitting room was on the ground floor directly beside the
entrance and its large window was separated from the pavement by the
deep chasm of the basement area. It had just emerged that Miss Rich was
in the habit of deriving what light she needed during the night from the
street lamp outside.

“I sit here in the dark looking out of the window and listening to the
radio.” The educated voice with the deprecating laugh in it came to them
out of the shadows. “If you like to draw the curtains I’ll turn on the
light, but you’ll see much better what I mean if you’ll pick your way
over here and stand behind me.”

She had been a schoolmistress. The tone was unmistakable and they obeyed
it, stumbling across the cluttered room to find her, a thin figure in a
dark gown lying on a high couch which had been arranged very carefully
beside the window.

“There, you see,” she said with some pride. “I can see all the houses on
that side of the road, the pillarbox on the corner, and just a little
tiny scrap of Edge Street itself. There is Number Seven, that’s the wall
by the dining-room window, and that’s where I saw the man get over, as I
told the constable.”

“Yes, I see, Ma’am.” Luke was bending down behind the couch to share her
angle of vision, and Mr. Campion, whose eyes were unusually good in the
dark, was able to save a wavering column of books, boxes, and what he
strongly suspected to be dirty plates as he stumbled against them.

“Put everything on the floor,” said Miss Rich over her shoulder. “I have
a woman once a week who cleans me right up. Then I start again. Now this
young man, who was a stranger to me as I told you, walked up to the
house soon after Mrs. Tassie and a girl, who I think is her niece, came
in. He spent five minutes in the porch, where of course I couldn’t see
him, and then to my astonishment he came hurrying out and actually
climbed over the wall. Had I had a telephone I should have used it. But
I haven’t. I know nobody I wish to ring up, so I spare myself that
expense.”

She paused reflectively.

“I might have shouted, I suppose. However, I didn’t. No one in this
house is very helpful. I knew Mrs. Tassie had a man over there to
protect her, and a great schoolgirl who would probably have done
something if necessary, so I waited a few moments when to my relief a
constable came by. I rapped on the window and as you already know he
stopped and I went out to the door and spoke to him. Well, I haven’t
seen your men go in yet, Superintendent.”

“No, Ma’am--you haven’t.” Luke could be as bland as she was. “It’s the
man who was waiting in the house as Mrs. Tassie came in, he is the
fellow we are interested in. Do you know what time he arrived?”

“Jeremy Hawker? You’re interested in him, are you? Oh.” Her face was in
the shadow but each man could have sworn he saw thin lips folding
tightly after the final word.

“Do you know him, Ma’am?”

“I’ve met him.” She considered and presently glanced to where Mr.
Campion stood in the shadow. “I don’t want to convey more than I mean,”
she began, indicating that while he probably knew what she was talking
about the police might not. “I have nothing against the man, and Mrs.
Tassie is very fond of him, but if I had not known he was there then I
think I should have put a coat over my dressing-gown and gone across in
the rain to warn her. I do go in sometimes at night in case she’s
lonely, but since he was there I didn’t see why I should bother.”

It was to Mr. Campion’s credit that he did understand.

“Perhaps he takes up a great deal of your friend’s time and thought?” he
ventured.

“The woman thinks as much of him as if he were her own.” The pleasant
voice invited them to marvel. “And as far as I can see he’s very seldom
there and only gives her a lot of worry. I grant you he has a pleasant
way with him and is a little more sophisticated than she thinks he is,
silly idiot.... She’s the salt of the earth. No one is too much trouble
for her. No intellect, but a long-suffering heart ...” Miss Rich broke
off, leaving the sentence in the air. “Anyhow,” she said suddenly,
“she’s the only person I’ve ever met who could put up with _me_! She’s
very fond of me. She buys and lends me the most horrible magazine every
week. I pretend to read it to please her.”

Luke cleared his throat. “At what time did Hawker arrive at Number
Seven, Ma’am? Did you happen to notice?”

“I did. I was listening to the symphony concert. It must have been about
half-past ten. He came up the road on foot, which is unusual. As a rule
he has a large smelly car which he leaves about in front of other
people’s houses. He walked straight into the porch and did not come out
again so he has a key. I often suspected it. He was moving round the
rooms after that until they came in.”

“How...? Oh, you saw the lights go on and off, I suppose.”

“Of course. He went everywhere except the spare bedroom. He spent quite
a time in the office. The telephone is in there. And he was also in the
kitchen for a time. That’s round the back....”

Luke interrupted her. “Round the back,” he echoed pointedly.

She laughed. She seemed delighted. “Bend down again and look,” she said.
“Can you see that lump like the back of a goose standing up against the
sky? Over the studio where Polly Tassie keeps her husband’s collection
of monstrosities. You can? Well, when the kitchen light goes on in
Number Seven it shines on that tree. It shows up far better in the
summer than in the winter, but I can usually see it. I’m not often
wrong. It was on for three or four minutes just before you came. Someone
was heating a nightcap, perhaps. It’s rather warm for a hot bottle. Is
there anything else you want to know?”

“Er ... no, Ma’am.” The Superintendent sounded both respectful and
distant. “That’ll do very nicely for the time being. Shall we find you
in this room if we should need you again?”

“Oh, yes, I shall be here, awake. I don’t sleep very much.” She sounded
as if she were sorry for herself and found the emotion contemptuous.
“Walk past the window and beckon and I’ll come to the door. Don’t ring.
You’ll wake the house and no one will thank you. I shall sit here and
watch what you do. Goodnight to you,” she continued, looking at Campion
again. “If Mrs. Tassie should need anybody beside her niece, her
as-good-as-adopted son, her burglar _and_ the police force, perhaps you
would let me know. I could go over, I suppose. Not that I should be of
the slightest use.”

“Now that’s a type of woman I can’t stand,” said Luke as the three men
walked away through the rain together towards the peeling stucco porch
of an empty house about thirty yards down the street. “I can just see
myself being comforted by her. ‘Don’t think of your trouble, think of
_me_, morning noon and night’.”

“Just a nut,” said Sergeant Picot, speaking for the first time during
the incident. “They’re not scarce. She produced what was wanted though,
didn’t she? There the suspect is, all ready to pack up and take home.
Shall I walk up to the front door nice and fatherly? We couldn’t lose
’im. We’ve got the whole place surrounded.”

“Sorry, George. We’re to take no risk. Those are orders.” Luke shook
himself to scatter the drops from his coat and perched on the parapet
which spanned the sides of the square portico guarding the drop to the
area beneath. “We wait and pick him up as he comes out in the decent and
orderly manner best calculated to take the so-and-so by surprise.”

Picot sniffed and nodded.

“Because he’s suspected of being the man in the Church Row shooting, I
suppose, sir? Is there any suggestion that he’s up to mischief here
now?”

Luke moved uneasily. “The idea is that he thinks he’s safe here,” he
said. “While he keeps that conviction it’s not very likely he’s going to
do any harm to the two women we know are with him.”

Picot looked towards the silent house and back again.

“I thought it was said he had prepared an alibi for this trip,” he
muttered. “What does he want with an alibi if he’s up to no harm? I
don’t feel comfortable about this. What’s he doing in there?”

Luke leant back against the tall door column so that his face was in
shadow.

“I think he’s parking something he doesn’t want to keep on him. The gun,
even. It would be in line with his method. This is the place he regards
as his bolt hole. He keeps the best side of his character here,
perhaps.”

“What about the old lady? Is she in it with him?”

“‘Course she is.” Luke sounded weary. “I don’t suppose she knows it yet.
She’s just fond of him. I’ve seen her sort so often I could tell you
exactly what’s coming to her. If you want to be certain that that chap’s
crimes are going to be paid for to the final farthing in terms of human
agony, you can start celebrating now.”

Picot said nothing for a minute and then he laughed briefly.

“It’s funny how people do seem to pay up for one another,” he remarked.
“I wonder if one could compute it scientifically, if it would work out
square. Those old women can never lie intelligently, can they? They
fluff it and every word they speak puts the bloke in it deeper and
deeper. That must add to the damage.” His anxiety returned. “When you
say parking evidence, you don’t think he could be in there destroying
it, do you, sir?”

Luke stretched himself. “I don’t know,” he said. “I don’t think so. I
hope not. We must not have any more killings tonight. My worry is that
ruddy boy Waterfield. If he hadn’t gone in I’d be perfectly easy. He was
in the porch five minutes according to Miss Rich. What was he doing
there?”

Mr. Campion coughed. “To my eternal shame, I did not wait to see,” he
said frankly. “I’d just been to the hospital and picked up a description
of him from the constable who had seen him with the girl in the morning.
It was obviously Waterfield and I was drifting back to you with the
information when suddenly I saw the fellow striding down Edge Street. I
followed him and saw him turn into Number Seven. I had no way of telling
that Hawker was there, of course, and I had no reason to suppose that
Waterfield would stay very long. I had no authority myself, so I doubled
back to the nearest ’phone box and called Tailor Street.”

“Ah,” said Luke, “did he knock and get no answer, or did someone come to
the door and send him away? Miss Rich couldn’t tell me. Yet something
decided him to climb the wall.”

“I don’t see how anyone can tell what’s happening without taking a
dekko,” said Picot. “I tell you what, sir. Let me nip round to the
street behind this one and get into the garden. I can probably see
something through the windows, if it’s only where the lights are in the
house.”

“All right.” Luke gave way unwillingly. “If you can find the boy in the
grounds bring him out, if you can do it quietly. But frighten Hawker and
we’ve had it.”

“I won’t frighten him!” Picot drew his narrow coat round his hips and
turned up his collar. “I’d have to shout to make myself heard against
this perishing rain.”

He plunged out into the downpour and disappeared in the direction of
Edge Street. Luke waited for a while. The road gave every appearance of
being empty. All the houses were dark and the police discreetly out of
sight. Finally he sighed and grinned towards the shadow which was Mr.
Campion.

“I hope you’re comfortable, captain. This may take all night.”

The thin man hunched his shoulders. “I was thinking how amazingly like
any other big game hunt it is, except that here one is spared any guilty
feeling about being secretly on the side of the animal,” he remarked.
“There’s something reptilian about this particular quarry of yours,
Charles. Tortuous, dexterous, and very near the ground. Contrary to my
usual reaction, I rather hope this chap will hang.”

Luke grunted. “Hang! Everybody talks to me about hanging,” he exploded.
“How am I going to _charge_ him, that’s what’s worrying me.”

There was silence while Mr. Campion stared out at the drowned faces of
the houses opposite.

“How very extraordinary,” he said at last. “I hadn’t noticed it. Nothing
quite jells, does it?”

“Exactly.” Luke made it a growl. “Every lead I pull out is as thin as a
bit of cotton. There are hundreds of strings, but nothing that promises
to plait up into a rope. The man is careful and he’s tidy, just like I
prophesied this morning.”

“What will you do? Take him in and question him and hope for the best?”

“It’s all I can do.” The Superintendent kicked the stucco with his heel.
“Anything may turn up at any moment. The lab boys may be lucky. The
drinking club girl may come across with some trinket which can be
traced. The bullet in the lawyer may match those in the Church Row
shooting. We may get positive identification of the waxworks in the ’bus
from all five witnesses. But so far every clue relates to a different
crime, and whereas we might try to prove method we might also come an
unholy cropper doing it. He’ll have a slap-up defence, remember.”

“Who will see to that? The newspapers?”

“Or the old lady.”

“Dear me.” Mr. Campion was apt to use the term when shaken. “He could
get clean away.”

“Over my dead body.” Luke spoke grimly. “We’ve had one little break and
Donne has stayed at Tailor Street to investigate it. The commissionaire
in the vestibule at the solicitor’s office turns out to have been
employed in his youth as a spotter at the Casino at Le Moulin. All
gambling houses have these chaps, who are specially trained to remember
a face whatever disguise its owner adopts, so that banned gamblers may
be slung out without trouble. If by chance he took a good look at the
delivery man he will be able to pick him out at an identity parade. That
could be enough to convict, all other things being equal. But the old
boy would have to be very sound in the box.”

“Suppose you get the gun?”

“That would do it. That’s why I’m sitting so quiet. If Hawker doesn’t
get wind we’re after him he may keep it on him. If he smells a rat he’ll
ditch it first thing. There are a lot of ifs, too many.”

Mr. Campion considered. “Very often this kind of criminal is betrayed,”
he ventured.

“I don’t see who could do it.” Luke indicated that the thought had been
in his mind. “I am very much afraid that he’s that rare bloke who is not
dependent on any one or fond of anyone. You can’t be betrayed by someone
you’ve never trusted.”

“What about an enemy?”

Luke stood up. “There’s just a chance, but only if it’s someone he’s
never suspected, and I should say he’s a character who suspects
everyone. Hullo, see who this is?”

He took a step forward as Chief Inspector Donne stepped swiftly out of
the rain into the porch. They could not see his face.

“Did he come across?” Luke’s voice was husky.

“The commissionaire? Oh yes, he thinks he’d know the vanman again.”
Donne sounded surprisingly casual. “He’s very old and quaggly, though,
poor chap. I don’t think he’ll live till the trial. This has been a
terrific shock to him. I’ve sent him home with his daughter and told her
to put him to bed. But don’t worry, Super, we’ve got Hawker. He’s in
the bag once we get our hands on him.”

“I’m glad to hear it.” Luke was suspicious. “Something turned up?”

“Yes.” Donne emitted a long breath. “The damnedest thing. I’d just
finished with the old man and was feeling pretty doubtful about
developments when a message came through from the sub-station in Siddon
Street. The proprietor of a small restaurant just across the road from
the Royal Albert Music Hall had brought in the dead solicitor’s wallet
which had been left on a table in his shop by a customer who just got up
and walked away after taking all the money and a couple of letters out
of it. The rest was intact.”

“Phillipson’s wallet? I don’t believe it.”

“I don’t blame you. It’s not credible.” Donne had forgotten all his
affectations and was a plain policeman, very nearly incoherent with
excitement. “But his name and address were all over it. That’s how we
got it so soon.”

“Can anyone there remember the customer?”

“Oh, it’s Hawker all right. The waitress and her mother who minds the
urns say they could swear to him. They noticed him particularly because
he put on some sort of act. They say he was frightened by a letter he
read. After he went out two young working chaps, who were facing him in
the eatery, spoke about him. They are regular customers. They’d know him
too. He gave himself away completely and utterly. He must have had a
brainstorm.”

Luke began to laugh softly in the moist darkness.

“There you are, Campion,” he said. “Who betrayed him? Friend or enemy?”

“The only man he didn’t suspect, at any rate,” said Mr. Campion.




Chapter 21

TETHER’S END


Up in the gay room which looked so homely with the old woman sleeping
heavily in her chair, Gerry went on with his preparations. He was in a
state of mind which was new to him. The suppressed excitement of the
morning had left him quiet and intelligent at first but now a fresh
change had taken place and he had become clumsy, his body feeling heavy
and unwilling to obey, as in a nightmare.

Although convinced that he had all the time in the world, he was trying
to hurry but was finding it very difficult. The black shadows under his
skin had intensified. His clothes hung upon his stiffening muscles and
there was a sweat on his forehead like a mould. He kept his eyes away
from Polly now, turning his head like a sulking child whenever he passed
her.

Yet so far all had gone fairly well. With both door and window sealed,
the little chamber was already growing airless and the fire was burning
blue and very low. In an hour, perhaps less, he would let the flame die
and then the gas, insidious and lethal, could pour out into the room.

He looked down at the stove for a moment and then crossed to the door
and turned to survey the scene. The little adjustments he had made to
the original scheme to meet the new circumstances were satisfactory
enough. The chair drawn up on the opposite side of the hearth to Polly’s
own looked as if it had always been there, and he had put an occasional
table beside it to hold the second beaker. He felt sure he had nothing
to fear. With reasonable luck the tragedy must appear the most natural
of accidents. An old woman and her unsuspecting visitor chatting over
the fire, unaware that the door had swung shut behind them. Any
coroner’s jury, after hearing of the gas official’s warning, would bring
in misadventure, adding the usual rider drawing public attention to the
dangers of imperfect ventilation, and another accident in the home would
make a half day’s wonder in the press.

Gerry opened the door and stood listening at the foot of the stairs
leading to the upper floor. The house was quite quiet in its cage of
hissing rain. He hesitated and his thought was quite apparent as he
glanced over his shoulder towards the room where the soft cushion he had
chosen lay ready on the table. Upstairs the girl was doubtless in her
first deep sleep.

He made a movement, paused, glanced down at his hands, and appeared to
change his mind. It was clear that he found the improvised plan, which
had been made necessary by the accident of Annabelle’s visit, difficult
or perhaps even distasteful, and he was reluctant to implement it until
the last moment.

At length he went back to the room, set his own empty glass and Polly’s
beaker on the tray ready to take down, resumed his raincoat and strapped
the belt tightly round his ribs as he liked to wear it.

Just before he took up the tray he felt in his pockets and missed the
gun. Incredulous astonishment appeared in his eyes, but cleared at once
as he glanced over at Polly and smiled with the same half-amused
exasperation with which he had watched her on that other rainy night
when she had stood in his path and he had sent a taxi to take her out of
his way.

He found the weapon at once. He knew exactly where it would be. He
opened the glass cupboard, lifted the lid of the tureen and took it out,
together with the handful of assorted documents under it. Polly was a
creature of habit and this was the place where she always hid the things
she did not want to lose but was yet a little ashamed of keeping. He had
seen her slip the trifles there a hundred times.

The yield on this occasion was much as he had thought it might be and
included a wad of raffle tickets for a working man’s club draw, bought
at the door, a treatise on vitamins to restore energy from the packaging
of a patent medicine, and a current driving licence renewed every year
although she did not own a car and had not driven since she came south.

He put them back, his mouth twisting suddenly out of control. He
remembered her so vividly. Then, thrusting the gun back in his pocket,
he took up the tray and went swiftly down to the kitchen.

The room welcomed him with its warmth and faint smells of food and
ironing, and he took his time washing the glass, polishing it, and when
he set it back in the cupboard he held it with the cloth. He rinsed the
beaker very thoroughly indeed and made it dirty again immediately with
some dregs of milk which he found in the saucepan on the draining board.
And that too he held and wiped with the cloth when he replaced it on the
tray to take upstairs again.

His next problem was the boiler. This square coke-burning box of cream
enamel matched the stove beside it and they were both crowded into the
original square hearth where the Victorian range had once stood. Gerry
opened the door at the bottom and found that, as he had feared, the fire
was dead. The ragged jacket which he had crammed into the top whilst he
was waiting for Polly to come home had stopped the draught completely.

He got up cursing, and went over to the cupboard beneath the sink where
he found a half used packet of the old-fashioned firelighters which she
always used. They were pale brown slabs of greasy wax which looked like
fudge and smelled like turpentine and were used broken up into small
pieces and lit directly beneath the solid fuel.

He prised the jacket out of the top of the boiler, filled the cavity
with coke which he found waiting in a tall thin galvanised hod or scoop
by the stove, and spent the next few minutes and a third of the lighters
getting it to burn again. Once he was sure of it he got up, dusted his
hands, and gave his attention to the jacket which lay, a smouldering
mass, upon the shining black top of the closed stove.

He could not be sure if it was actually burning or if it had merely
retained some of the smoke from the original fire, and he prodded it
dubiously. It was warm but by no means hot and the padding on the
shoulders looked indestructible.

He was turning the garment over in an attempt to find out if any part of
it was alight when his hand touched something bulky in the inside
breast pocket. A sudden stab of apprehension touched his heart and, with
colour flooding savagely into his face, he put in his hand and drew out
a roll of notes and Polly’s letters to Matt Phillipson, both of which he
had taken from the dead man’s wallet while he was sitting in the café.
He remembered he had put them in his coat as soon as the waitress had
warned him about displaying the money, and he had not thought of either
of them since. From that instant they had vanished from his mind as
completely as if a sponge had wiped them off a plate.

He stood holding his breath, realisation breaking over him in a wave.

The wallet. Where was it?

To him the most terrifying thing was that he knew, he knew quite well.
He had known all the time. He knew he had walked directly out of the
café, leaving the leather folder behind him on the table, and he had
done it almost but not quite deliberately. Only the finest veil of
unawareness had hung between him and that suicidal act.

He shied away from the certainty in trembling fury and searched through
every other pocket both in the jacket and in the clothes he wore, and
finally opened the boiler-plate again and, with a gesture which he knew
was futile, thrust his bare hand into the coke.

At last he became very quiet. His shoulders were hunched and all his
movements became a little smaller as if he was shrinking into himself as
the old seem to do. He took up the jacket and the firelighters and
pushed them together into the empty coke hod, and turned from the stove.
His glance travelled slowly across the room to come to rest on the dark
window sprinkled with raindrops, and in that instant his eyes met
another pair of eyes looking in.

Sergeant Picot, who had been watching from the yard ever since the light
had appeared in the kitchen, stepped back at once and would have taken
his oath on it that he had not been seen.

Gerry gave no sign of alarm but he slid the paper money and the letters
into the hod which he was carrying and walked on smoothly to the door
with it, where he turned up the switch. Then he drew his gun, and, with
that in his right hand and the scoop containing the smouldering jacket
in his left, he crept back to the window.

There is always a certain amount of light from a city sky, but while he
could just make his way about the house by the faint glow from the
window, the garden, lying low between high walls, was in complete
darkness, and out there he could see nothing.

He came away at last and moved very softly into the small square lobby
outside the kitchen door. A short flight of stairs directly in front of
him led up to the front hall and as he stood at the foot of them his
eyes were almost on a level with the floor, so that he could see a
narrow ribbon of grey light from the street where the front door did not
quite fit its worn step.

As he stood watching an unmistakable shadow passed across this line and
back again, so that he knew that a man stood waiting in the porch.

He crept up into the hall and turned into the little office where he
stood flattened against the wall beside the window, peering over his
shoulder into the street. There was no one actually loitering outside
the gate but a heavy figure hurrying up the pavement on the opposite
side of the road had something about him which was unmistakable.

Gerry moved away. Stepping very quietly, he regained the hall and turned
down the passage to the museum. The door to the corridor which linked
the house to the studio was kept fastened at night, but, as he knew, the
key was always left in the lock. He got the latch undone without noise
and felt his way through the yard or so of wooden tunnel carpeted with
matting and smelling of varnish, to push open the swing door to the
collection.

As he stepped into the airless, aromatic atmosphere he saw the square
skylight, a patch of yellowish grey in the dark roof. Below it there was
a cluster of grotesque shapes just discernible against the deeper
shadow.

For a second he hesitated, his hand tightening round his gun. He thought
he had heard a movement somewhere amid the shadows. It had been a rustle
or a sigh, as if someone had caught his breath. He listened but it did
not come again, and after a time he went on, advancing slowly down the
side aisle past the dais.

He was so stunned by the discovery of his self-betrayal that his
behaviour was largely automatic. Just as a hunted animal will continue
to run for some time after a bullet has killed it, so he pressed on with
the plan he had made.

He was making for the old iron stove which heated the room in very cold
weather and was now almost certainly empty. When he had carried Polly’s
milk down to be reheated and had discovered that the boiler was out, he
had decided that this stove in the museum was the one place where the
cremation of the jacket could be accomplished successfully. He had been
anxious to destroy the ragged garment because he realised that it had
been the outstanding item of his costume when he had carried the wooden
box into the house in Minton Terrace, and he knew that over ninety per
cent of the people who had noticed him at all there would in fact only
have noticed the coat.

It was very dark in the side aisle and although he knew the place so
well he found that he was brushing against the crowded exhibits as he
passed. To get away from them he swerved across the parquet towards the
dais.

The shadows sitting there, crouching so still not three feet away from
him, seemed to materialise while he stared at it. He stopped, gripping
his gun, his hairs prickling on his scalp. The shape changed in contour
and a blurred white face peered up at him.

“Oh,” said Annabelle, her voice shrill in the darkness, “Oh, you’ve got
a revolver!”

In the instant paralysis while his slowed mind registered the
astonishing fact that the girl he intended to silence was here, and not
where he expected her to be, upstairs asleep in her room, a second
shadow streaked out of the blackness and a blow under his wrist sent the
weapon spinning out of his grasp. Immediately afterwards a fist crashed
into his face, catching him under the cheekbone.

The scoop dropped out of his hand and rolled away into the dry darkness
and he struck out savagely, to meet a whirlwind. Richard plunged into
the fight as some small men do with a reckless belligerence which
offsets almost any disadvantage. He was used to giving away enormous
amounts of weight and his reach was inadequate, but he was hard-headed
and very fit, and on this occasion he had the advantage of surprise.

All day he had been growing more and more angry. He did not understand
the world which had threatened to absorb his newly found and beautiful
Annabelle, but everything he had so far discovered about it had struck
him as inexpressibly second class and tawdry. And now her statement,
coming to him out of the tingling dark, touched off an explosion.

For the first time in his life he experienced outrage.

He hurled himself at Gerry without doubting it was he and after a minute
or two of hard milling had the extreme satisfaction of feeling him go
down with a crash before his right. He flung himself upon him without
pause, fought for his throat, and twisting his tie round his wrist
achieved a stranglehold.

“You pulled a gun on her,” he muttered, drumming his knees into the
narrow ribs as if he was riding a recalcitrant horse. “A _gun_! You had
the blasted impudence to draw a gun.”

On top of the attack, which was utterly unexpected, Gerry recognised the
voice and the last flimsy shreds of illusion dropped from his eyes.

“You ... followed me from the Tenniel?” The words were breathy in the
airless dark.

“I followed you from here to the barber’s this morning.” Richard could
not resist telling him. “I brought Annabelle here, and as she’s only a
kid I wanted to know what sort of life she was going to find. Now I
know. I’ve been to Rolf’s Dump and so have the police. They’re round
this house now waiting for you to come out. I don’t care if they catch
you or if they don’t, but I won’t have Annabelle mixed up in any mucky
little scandal. Do you understand that or don’t you?”

Gerry did not move. The discovery that Richard regarded him as some sort
of small-time crook flourishing a gun to frighten a woman had an
extraordinary effect upon him. It arrived like a brief mercy, a little
screen to hide for a moment his naked horror, which had become
terrifying even to himself.

He let his body go limp. “All right.” He sounded merely sulky.

Richard released his hold and got up. As he stepped back his heel
knocked something heavy and he stooped and picked it up. It was the gun
and he stood holding it.

“Buck up, Gerry, and clear out of this building,” he said.

“I don’t care if you go back into the house or not, but I don’t want you
found in here with us.”

The young voice was strong and authoritative, and a little way down the
room Annabelle, responding to it, opened the door into the garden, to
let in a great swirling gust of midnight air.

Immediately from somewhere just behind them, there came the sound of a
strange sucking breath, followed at once by a small blunt noise like a
toy balloon bursting, and a sheet of orange flame shot up from the edge
of the dais and began to spread.

As Gerry reeled to his feet the whole of the far end of the museum
appeared to catch fire at once. It happened in a moment and without
warning, like the descent of a fire bomb.

The explanation was simple. At the beginning of the fight, when Gerry
had dropped the coke scoop, it had rolled over and over and the jacket
had fallen half out of it with the firelighters amid its folds. The heat
had melted the wax and the sudden draught from the garden door had
fanned the cloth into flame. The museum was ripe for burning, like a
bonfire saved for a celebration. Even the stuffed beasts, impregnated
for many years with a naptha spray against moth, were dry and
tinder-like with age and dust.

The ostrich lamp with its silken shade blazed like a sacrificial torch,
flinging sparks up into the roof, and as they fell they started other
fires, so that the whole building was as good as lost in the first three
minutes.

“Aunt Polly. We must get Aunt Polly!” Annabelle’s choking cry from the
doorway reached Richard through the sighing rustle of the flames and he
swung towards her.

“Get out before you’re suffocated!” he gasped and pushed her into the
garden. “Mrs. Tassie is all right. She’s not in the same building. She
can get out through the house, can’t she?”

He threw the final question at the man who had reeled out behind them.

“Get the door shut. The air’s making it worse in there.”

Out in the rain the darkness was newly alive. On the other side of the
wall at the end of the garden someone was shouting and from the path to
the back road the sound of running feet came thudding towards them.
Already the glare from the museum was lighting the dark branches of the
trees, so that the watchers in the street in front had been alarmed.

Richard’s arm was round Annabelle’s shoulders.

“It’s no use us assing about any longer. We’ll have to see the police,”
he said to her. “Come on, pretty. We’ll go and meet them.”

He glanced back at the shadow beside him. “You’d better go in through
the kitchen, Gerry, and warn the old lady, hadn’t you? Or are you going
to make a dash for it while the going’s good?”

His dislike and contempt, which were both so essentially youthful, had
not lessened, and the face of the silent figure beside him made no
impression upon him. He did not even see it. The notion that something a
little less than a man might be trembling there, struggling feebly to
wrap itself in the shreds of a false and shameful identity which had
been casually created for it by Richard himself, was something quite
outside his imagination. It was an aspect of hell, which, mercifully,
was not in his comprehension.

“Anyway,” he said fiercely, “don’t stay here. We don’t want to see
anything of you again, and I don’t want to have to explain this either,
so take it with you, please.”

The clatter of the wooden gate less than forty feet away from them lent
emphasis to the words. Gerry felt a cold weight thrust into his hand. He
turned back blindly into the fire, his fingers closing round the gun.

The museum of oddities, the collection of nonsense, the jokes in bad
taste, and all the other naïve banalities, were about to burn to the
ground, but so far most of the actual blaze was confined to the dais
and the further end of the building, so that the creeping figure holding
the weapon was able to cross the few feet of parquet to the swing door
in the passage. He burst through the second door and closed it behind
him, and came safely into the cool hall of the little house where all
was dark and quiet, as he had left it.

He went down the short flight of steps towards the kitchen and turned
back to see the grey streak showing under the front door. For a minute
he watched it fixedly and dropped slowly down until he was lying on the
stairs, his eyes level with the top step. But the grey line remained
unbroken. The watcher had been distracted by the fire. The shadow had
gone.

The house was silent as the end of the world. The noises from the
outside, the shouts and the hollow alarums of the firebells, the police
whistles and the stamp of feet were far away from him, as if already
they belonged to a place in which he had no claim, and as he lay there
in the little dark hole, with the gun in his hand, he heard them without
interest.

He was nothing, and there was nothing for him.

After a time he put the muzzle of the weapon into his mouth, but
although his finger curled round the trigger he did not press it.

The long seconds crept by. The corner was very cool, very dark.

In the end he stirred painfully. The gun slid out of his hand, dropping
into the carpeted well below him, and then very slowly and as if he had
no strength in his body, he began to climb hand over hand up the steps,
across the hallway, and finally, as if it was a mountain he was
essaying, up the main staircase.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was an hour after dawn when Sergeant Picot placed a cup of nice black
tea on the desk where Luke sat writing in the office which had once been
his own in the Barrow Road station.

“It’s like the good old days, Chief,” he remarked, demoting his hero in
a fit of pure nostalgia. “Well, that’s that, and very satisfactory.” He
jerked his square head in appreciation of good work done. “He’s a cool
one. I hope he gets what’s coming to him. That was only done for show
you know, him bringing the woman out. Do you know what he said to me?”

Luke had heard, for it was all over the Station, but he was a kind man
even in the early morning. He made an interested noise and took up the
tea for which he was very grateful.

Picot leaned across the desk, his solid face shocked as a child’s.

“I said to ’im as I put on the bracelets, I said ‘What made you go back
for the old girl?’ ’Pon my Sam he looked me square in the face and spoke
as straight as if he was saying his prayers. ‘Because I need her,’ he
said. It was as crude as that. Serve ’im right if she turns on him when
she comes out of hospital and see what’s happened to her property and
hears what he’s been up to.”

“She won’t.” The Superintendent spoke with utter certainty.

“Then she’s a fool,” said Picot, “because that chap really is the
cold-blooded monster that the papers are going to call him. D’you
honestly think she’ll stick by him when it all comes out?”

Luke sighed and went back to his report. His vivid face was furrowed
with weariness.

“I know it,” he said. “She’ll forgive him without question, whatever
he’s done to her and however high we hang him. _And he knows it._ It’s
no use you blaming her. She can’t help herself. She’s only a vehicle.
That’s Disinterested Love, Chum, a force, like nuclear energy. It’s
absolute.”

Picot shrugged his shoulders. He was disgusted.

“Well, he left the wallet on the caff table and his gun on the stairs so
he made pretty certain of hanging,” he observed with some satisfaction.
“He couldn’t stand himself any longer, that’s what it amounts to.”

“I doubt it.” Luke put another sheet in the typewriter. “In my
experience that kind of blackout always indicates an explosion. Either
some unexpected idea or demand set off an emotional spark which he
didn’t know he had in him, or some force from outside suddenly succeeded
in penetrating his hide and startled him out of his senses for a
minute. We shall never know quite what it was. It’s not the sort of
evidence which comes out at a trial.”

Picot said nothing but sat down at the other desk and put on his
spectacles. There was a great deal of work to be done.


THE END


[The end of _Hide My Eyes_ by Margery Allingham]
