=* A Distributed Proofreaders Canada eBook *=

This eBook is made available at no cost and with very few restrictions.
These restrictions apply only if (1) you make a change in the eBook
(other than alteration for different display devices), or (2) you are
making commercial use of the eBook. If either of these conditions
applies, please contact a https://www.fadedpage.com administrator before
proceeding. Thousands more FREE eBooks are available at
https://www.fadedpage.com.

This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright
in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your country's
copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT
DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.

_Title:_ No Love Lost
_Date of first publication:_ 1952
_Author:_ Margery Allingham (1904-1966)
_Date first posted:_ Feb. 2, 2020
_Date last updated:_ Nov. 10, 2022
Faded Page eBook #20200202

This eBook was produced by: Al Haines, Jen Haines & the online
Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at https://www.pgdpcanada.net





                          [Cover Illustration]




                          _MARGERY ALLINGHAM_
                             _NO LOVE LOST_
                       _Two Stories of Suspense_
                First published by the World’s Work 1954

                   Made and printed in Great Britain
                      by Hazell Watson & Viney Ltd
                          Aylesbury and Slough




                      THE PATIENT AT PEACOCKS HALL


                                PART ONE

‘I never did think her _eyes_ were a patch on yours, Miss Ann. Take a
good look. You can see them. They’re as plain as anything. Now let me
get you a hand mirror.’

Rhoda planted the folded newspaper with the photograph in it squarely in
front of me, supporting it against my after-lunch coffee cup. She was
forthright and innocently excited in every one of her two hundred
pounds, and she tore open an old wound as surely as if, with her plump,
well-meaning fingers, she had found the cicatrix and ripped it from my
flesh.

It was so unexpected. I had had such a busy morning and was so full of
other people’s troubles that my own life was utterly forgotten. She took
me completely off guard and got right through at a stroke, without my
being aware.

‘No, thank you,’ I said politely, hoping I had not turned white from the
sudden frightening pain, for I knew her so well that my armour slips
into place by reflex action, and I knew she would be watching me
anxiously to see if my recovery was complete. (Rhoda is the kind of
woman who digs up the mint outside her kitchen door two days after she
has planted it, to find out if it has started to grow.) ‘I’ve seen my
eyes this morning, bloodshot again. What do you think it is? Alcohol?’

She was nearly sidetracked. The buttons on her white overall strained as
she took a breath and peered at me.

‘Nonsense, they’re lovely, just like your poor mother’s, only a
different blue and not so round.’

‘How true,’ I agreed. ‘Like her, I’ve got two of them.’

‘Now you’re trying to be funny like your father. I never laughed when he
wanted me to and I shan’t at you. You have got nice eyes and you’re
getting quite good-looking altogether now you’ve finished working
yourself to death at the hospital and settled down as half a country
doctor. You’ve lost that puggy look you had. I was mentioning it to Mr
Dawson when he came with the veg.’

‘That was interesting for him,’ I murmured, remembering that gaunt,
asthmatic greengrocer. ‘I’m not half a doctor, by the way. I’ve been
qualified for some years.’

‘Four and a half,’ she said. ‘But you’re an assistant to Dr Ludlow, poor
old gentleman, aren’t you? You don’t do it all yourself.’ Her kind
unlovely face wore its most characteristic expression, part suspicion,
part belligerence, and nearly all affection. ‘Aren’t you going to read
the bit about _her_? Or perhaps you don’t want to?’

I ignored the emphasis. Rhoda did not mean it, or at least not much. She
was sixteen when she came to work for my mother three weeks after I was
born, and now that there is only myself of the family left, and I have
my own little cottage at the far end of Dr Ludlow’s estate, she has
continued to work for me. She does it just as faithfully and a good deal
more chattily than ever she did in that busy doctor’s home in
Southersham.

My father, who delighted in her and called her ‘Rhododendron’, used to
say that she was the only woman in the world who knew everything about
him and understood absolutely nothing, but I think he did her less than
justice. She understands, a little, not quite enough.

It was very pleasant in my room—or it had been before she brought the
newspaper. The cottage has only one downstairs room other than the
kitchen and it is a big one. It is furnished with the nicest bits from
home and is long and low, with french windows giving on to a small mossy
yard, and it looks on to the broad tree-islanded meadow which marks the
end of the built-up area on this side of the little town of Mapleford.

I love it, and I was happy and peaceful and content before she spoke.
Now, since she was watching me, I had to read the paragraph about
Francia Forde.

I did not linger over the photograph. Let me be honest and say at once
that I have never really studied any of the reproductions of that lovely
Botticelli face with its halo of pale hair. I never saw any of the four
films she starred in and I never let myself envisage her as a real
woman, lest I should fall into that most self-punishing sin of all and
hate her till I burned myself to ash. I had no idea if she was tall or
short, shrill or husky, witty or a fool. As far as I was concerned,
Francia Forde had never existed, nor John Linnett either.

Anyhow, that was my story and I was sticking to it, pretty well. I had
my own way to make and I was enjoying it. At twenty-eight I was the
chief assistant to an old man who had a practice twice too big for him.
My experience was growing every hour. I liked my patients and their
troubles were mine. I could still rejoice when they were born and feel a
genuine pang when, despite my best efforts, they died. Love was now just
another natural malady suffered or enjoyed by other people. I had
experienced it, I knew about it, it was over.

At the moment my real passion was whooping-cough. The paragraph could
hardly, therefore, be expected to hold much interest for me, and I was
surprised to find how difficult it was to read. I have no intention of
reproducing it. I couldn’t if I tried. The words danced before me and
their sense didn’t seem worth discovering. But it was something about
the ‘beautiful Francia Forde whom everyone had loved so much in _Shadow
Lady_’ having taken leave of the studios for a while to become the
‘Moonlight Girl’ in an enormous press advertising campaign which
Moonlight Soap and Beauty Products Ltd were about to launch on a
breathless world—and there was a mention of television.

To me it simply meant that I was going to be reminded of her in every
magazine or newspaper I opened, and that even the air would not be free
of her. Movies I could and did avoid, but now she was going to be
everywhere.

Rhoda had stamped off with the plates, so I did not have to watch my
face. I put the folded paper down and sat looking across the table at
the rock flowers and the meadows beyond.

The past is a terrifying thing. One finds one cheats so. John was four
years older than I. We were the children of friends. Our fathers were
doctors in the same town, and from our babyhood they had set their
hearts first on our taking up medicine and then on our marrying. At that
moment I could have sworn that it had all been a silly mistake of the
old people’s and that we never could have loved each other, and yet in
the next instant I was remembering the night I first noticed John had
grown so breath-takingly good-looking. It was the night before he was
off to war as a fully fledged major in the RAMC and I was still in my
first year at hospital. We had walked in the Linnetts’ walled garden,
and the ilex trees had whispered above us and the sweet earth had
breathed on us with a new tenderness.

Without wanting to in the least, as I sat there with Francia Forde’s
smile flashing up at me from the page, I remembered the feel of his
fingers on my shoulder and the hard, unexpectedly importunate touch of
his mouth on mine. I could understand still and even recapture all the
crazy magic of that moment when we realized that the one really
important thing in all the world was that we were ourselves and no one
else, and that together we were complete and invincible.

All that was quite vivid. I could remember the plans we made and how
none of them seemed at all grandiose or impossible. Even the children’s
clinic, which was to grow into a hospital and a research station, was
more real to me than—say—the puzzled misery of the last time he came
home on leave just after V.E. Day.

By that time terrible things had happened. Old Dr and Mrs Linnett were
both gone. They had stepped into a crowded train after a flying visit to
London, only to be taken out in the screaming darkness in the midst of a
raid two stations down the line. They were both dead, killed by
machine-gun bullets, the surprised expression still on their kind old
faces. My own father, too, was fuming in a bed in his own hospital as
the cruelty of his last illness slowly consumed him.

I don’t think John and I quarrelled on that last leave. We knew each
other too well. We were still friends, still in love. We made plans for
our wedding, which was to take place as soon as I had finished at St
James’s. But there was a change in him. He had become nervy and
preoccupied, as if the strain of war had begun to tell. At least, I
think I put it down to the war. Women were just beginning to suspect
that the experience might have had some sort of strange effect upon
their menfolk about that time.

I know his looks had become remarkable. He had always been considered
handsome in Southersham, but now there was something outstanding about
him. He had his father’s dark red hair and wide-shouldered height, his
good head and wide smile, and he had Mrs Linnett’s short straight nose,
thick creamy skin, and the narrow dancing eyes that were more attractive
in a man even than in her. There was no doubt about it. Old friends, let
alone strangers, looked hard at him twice and, if they happened to be
young and female, were inclined to blush for no good reason at all. To
do him justice—and it was terribly hard for me to do him justice at
that distance—he had not seemed to be aware of any change.

I could remember all that, but later, that long lonely period in the
winter of ’45 when I had no letters, the time which seemed to go on for
years—as I sat thinking that afternoon it had no reality for me. I had
forgotten it. The psycho people have a theory that one only remembers
the things one desires to, secretly. I cannot believe that, for every
line of the Southersham _Observer’s_ bombshell that spring was as clear
to me as if I had had the fuzzy small-town print before me, and if there
was ever anything I should want to forget it must have been that. The
owner and editor of that paper was my father’s only local enemy. Daddy
always said he had a ‘corseted soul’, and certainly the way he presented
that extract from the film company’s publicity sheet was typical of him.
He conveyed he did not approve of it but he got every word of it in.

Miss Phillimore sent the paper to me in London and I got it on a day
that was pure poetry, green and gold, and blue skies. No one but she
could have written, ‘This may surprise you dear,’ in that spidery 1890
hand. The editor had quoted a few paragraphs written in the
out-of-this-world style some of those writers achieve. I could recite
them still, though I had only read them once.

                        FAIRYLIKE FRANCIA FORDE
                    CAPTURES GLAMOUR HERO FROM ARMY

    Medicine Relinquishes Its Handsomest Man. Runaway Wedding Ere
    Film Goes on Floor. Francia Forde, Bullion’s new and
    scintillating starlet, who is to portray the daughter (Yetta) in
    the new Dolores Duse epic _Chains_, has married John Linnett,
    Director Waldo’s latest discovery. Linnett, who has been granted
    indefinite leave from the army to play opposite his bride, will
    take the part of Yetta’s tempestuous lover.

And so on and so on. There was a final line or so written in the same
vein:

    The Rumour Bird whispers to us that there is a certain little
    lady doctor in Linnett’s home town who is going to feel badly
    over this development, but cheer up, Miss Medico, you can’t keep
    a star on the ground—not when it’s hitched to Francia’s wagon.

The Southersham _Observer_ finished the piece with a reference to ‘an
engagement notice printed in these columns not long ago’, and a snappy
hark-back to the tragedy of Dr and Mrs Linnett’s death in the raid.

I remembered that all right. Although I was heart-free and cured and
wedded to whooping-cough, I remembered every paralysing word of it.
Incredibly enough, that was all there was to remember. That was all I
ever heard. I had no letter, no message, not even gossip through
friends. It was as though John had died. He had turned his back on his
home, his ideals, and everything he had ever lived for. It was so unlike
him that for months I could not believe it.

When _Chains_ appeared, Francia was in it but not John. She made her
first hit in that film in which Dolores Duse, the veteran French
actress, was so moving, and in her next film she was a star. Since then
she had gone from strength to strength. But John had vanished. If he was
still married to her, he kept in the background. He never wrote and he
never came back to Southersham.

Well, there it was, that was my story, and if I had not forgotten quite
as completely as I had thought, I had at least got over it. That
afternoon I honestly believe that the only thing I still felt I could
not forgive John for was the waste, the wicked betrayal of his career.
That was something a million times more important than I could ever be,
and yet . . .

Old Dr Percy Ludlow saved me from myself just then. I glanced up to see
him trotting across the meadow and I got up to open the glass doors to
meet him. Anyone less like the popular conception of a doctor I have yet
to see. He is a tough, slightly horsy little man with a face like red
sandstone and a gay, colourful style of dress he can’t have changed
since he was a boy. Local people whisper to me that he is eighty, which
is absurd. He looks sixty and still rides to hounds whenever he gets a
chance.

Percy has not been quite the same since he was ‘nationalized’, as he is
pleased to refer to his position under the new National Health scheme,
and of course the change has been a sensational one from his point of
view. After a lifetime of behaving like some benevolent and beloved
Robin Hood, soaking his rich patients to pay for his poor ones, and
preserving a religious impartiality in his treatment of disease wherever
he found it, he awoke one July morning to discover himself a paid
government clerk as well as an unpaid general practitioner. In fact,
instead of having the one master in his sacred calling, he found he had
two, and the second (who held the purse strings) was a vast, impersonal,
remarkably uninformed machine with a predilection for having its million
and one queries answered in triplicate. He says he’s going to die of
writer’s cramp, but I think it is more likely to be apoplexy!

I suppose, in my more serious moments, I ought not to approve of him. He
is obstinate and old-fashioned, hopelessly conventional and a snob. And
yet, when science has let me down and a diagnosis is beyond me, when
I’ve thought of everything and worked out everything and am still in the
dark, he will shuffle up to the bedside, pull down an eyelid, sniff, and
fish up out of some experience-taught subconscious an answer which is
pure guesswork but which happens to be right.

Just then, as he came dancing in, I saw to my surprise that he was
angry. His rather light brown suit was buttoned tightly round his
compact body, and his vivid blue eye glared at me belligerently from his
red face. He paused just inside the room and began to play with the
coins in his trousers pockets.

‘I suppose you’re very pleased with yourself, Dr Fowler.’

That ‘Doctor’ was a danger signal, and I spoke cautiously.

‘Not more than usual. What have I done now?’

He thrust his chin out at me. ‘Overconscientious, that’s what’s wrong
with women in the professions. No thought of consequences. Lose a packet
of aspirin and rush off to the police.’

‘Oh,’ I murmured, enlightened. ‘The Dormital.’

‘Dormital!’ He repeated the word as though he had never heard of it, as
perhaps he hadn’t. ‘What is it? One of these rubbishy phenobarbituric
derivatives, I suppose. Where did you get it? Some darned silly firm
send it to you as a sample?’

Since he had clearly been talking to Brush, our local Inspector, to whom
I had reported everything, this was not too clever of him. Had he been a
little less angry I might have pointed that out. As it was, I nodded.

‘It’s new. They’ve increased the solubility and—’

‘Have they?’ He could not have been more disgusted. ‘Never dream of
using that sort of filth myself.’

I knew he was reputed never to prescribe anything save senna or old port
and I nearly laughed.

‘I’m sorry,’ I murmured, ‘but it is a poison, and I think someone must
really have taken it out of my bag when I was on my round, so I reported
it.’

At first I thought he was going to explode, but he thought better of it,
and I could see him making up his mind how he was going to manage me.
Presently he disarmed me with a smile.

‘I like a girl who stands up for herself,’ he announced. ‘You get that
from your mother, no doubt.’

This time a grin did escape me. I had always suspected it was my
mother’s rather famous country family who had got me the job when Percy
was checking my background. He shook his head at me then and asked me
for the list of calls I had made on the day of the loss, and when I
fetched it he went over each entry, calling everyone by his first name,
which wasn’t really surprising, perhaps, since he’d brought most of them
into the world.

‘Lizzie Luffkin,’ he read aloud, putting a square forefinger on the
page. ‘Yes, I heard you’d been there. She’s a strange old lady, Ann,
rather a dangerous old lady. Makes up what she can’t learn. Pity you
called. Left the car in the road, I suppose? Unlocked?’

‘I’m afraid so.’

‘Don’t blame you. Never locked a car in my life. Told Brush so. No,
there’s no one doubtful on this list, Ann. You couldn’t have taken it
with you.’ He eyed me with a curious expression which was half shrewd
and half obstinate. ‘Make up your mind to that. You don’t know Mapleford
as I do. We’re old-fashioned down here. Maybe we’re even a little bit
narrow. Am I making myself clear?’

‘Not frightfully,’ I said helplessly, and he sighed.

‘You’re young, my dear. The people down here are not, and I’m not
speaking of years. Brush and I have been discussing the matter, and he
agrees with me it would be very unwise to broadcast the loss. We don’t
want a lot of chatter in Mapleford about—well, to put it bluntly, about
drugs.’

I gaped at him. To me all drugs are drugs, so to speak, dangerous or
otherwise. I thought he was going to shake me.

‘Veronal!’ he exclaimed, making it sound like an improper word.
‘Veronal, Ann. All your fancy barbituric fiddle-me-faddles are only
veronal, and we’ve heard quite enough about _that_ in our time.’ He
lowered his voice, although we were alone. ‘The old Duke’s sister died
of it, poor wretched woman. She was an addict.’

Perhaps I was not as impressed as I ought to have been. I knew the Dukes
of St Pancras, whose gothic towers overshadowed the little town, still
dominated Mapleford minds, but the ‘young Duke’, as he was called, had
seemed on the elderly side to me.

‘But _when_ was all this?’ I demanded.

Percy Ludlow met my eyes solemnly. ‘Only thirty years ago,’ he said
without a tremor. ‘No time at all in a place like this. I remember it as
if it was last week. So do most other people. So you see, once we start
muttering about lost or stolen veronal there’ll be no end of talk. I
know the people down here. Half of them have got nothing to do except
chatter about their neighbours. You take my word for it, young woman,
you’ll have every maiden lady on your register suspected of taking
narcotics if you’re not very careful.’

It was a jolt to me. Although my intelligence told me he must be crazy,
I knew in my heart that he was right. It was his famous trick of correct
diagnosis all over again. I might be right in theory, but he knew the
people of his funny little town.

‘I’m terribly sorry,’ I began, and he grinned at me.

‘I hate scandal,’ he remarked. ‘In fact I’m terrified of it. I’ll get
you out of anything in Mapleford except scandal. Then I wouldn’t lift a
finger.’ He shot one of his bright birdlike stares at me. ‘What’s your
new friend at Peacocks like?’

That took me by surprise. It showed me, too, what I ought to have known
about the size and efficiency of Mapleford’s espionage system. I had
been down to Peacocks Hall exactly five times since old Mrs Montgomery
had let the house to Peter Gastineau in February. This man was one of my
very few private patients—that is to say, one of those who, although
they paid the compulsory weekly premium under the new scheme, elected to
pay their doctor as well. That alone made him something of a rarity. I
explained at once.

‘Well, he’s arthritic,’ I said, ‘and he had quite a “heart”. He spent
some time in a prison camp, and not one of the better ones either, by
the look of him. He has a man and his wife looking after him.’

Ludlow grunted. ‘All foreigners, I suppose?’

‘Gastineau is naturalized, but I imagine he’s French or Belgian born.
The servants aren’t English either.’

‘I see.’ He seemed gloomy. ‘I don’t like foreigners. Pure prejudice, of
course, but they all seem sly to me . . . all except the Americans and
the Scots, and they’ve got other faults no doubt. What did Alice
Montgomery want to let her house for?’

‘She’s gone to London for the spring.’

‘Oh.’ That cheered him. ‘I didn’t realize he hadn’t come to stay.’ He
paused in his meanderings up and down the room and raised his eyebrows.
‘Very lucky to let that old house for such a short time this weather.
Why does a foreigner want to come down here in the cold? Darned damp
hole to take his arthritis to, I should have thought. Well, I shouldn’t
see any more of him than you need, you know.’

He went off to the french windows, but before he left glanced round.

‘You’re a bit too pretty with that black hair and blue eyes, and your
figure’s too good,’ he said seriously. ‘These old gals round here, they
suspect that.’

(So it was Miss Luffkin, was it? Her little house was very near
Peacocks. I might have known.)

‘Those are faults I’ll recover from with the years,’ I said aloud.

‘Eh? Oh yes, I suppose you will.’ The notion did not appear to comfort
him particularly. ‘Goo’bye, my dear. Not another word about that other
matter, mind. Leave that entirely to me.’

He went dancing off across the meadow like a gnome, and as I watched him
Rhoda came up behind me.

‘I couldn’t help hearing and it reminded me,’ she said brazenly. ‘This
cottage is too small for secrets. That Mr Gastineau rang up twice this
morning. He’s quite well but he wants to see you very urgently. Wouldn’t
leave a message.’

I could feel her curiosity bristling like a hedgehog.

‘He’s well over forty and he’s one of the ugliest men I’ve ever set eyes
on,’ I observed.

‘Is he?’ To my surprise she sounded quite relieved. As a rule any faint
promise of romance sets her up for a week. I deduced that an arthritic
foreigner was not acceptable, but as if she had been reading my mind she
said suddenly: ‘I’ve been remembering Mr John, you see.’

So had I, of course. There are times when I find old Rhoda very nearly
unbearable.

It was ten past five when I left the Cottage Hospital on the other side
of town and surgery was at six, but as I neared the lane which leads
past Miss Luffkin’s cottage to Peacocks Hall I thought I could just fit
in a call on Mr Gastineau. I was not going there because he attracted me
irresistibly. He didn’t. To my mind there was little that was entrancing
about that battered and racked shell of a human being, but there was
something there that I recognized and thought I could sympathize with,
and the interesting thing about it was that I couldn’t give it a name.
He and I shared a frame of mind, or I thought we did. There was
something about his attitude towards life which struck a responsive
chord in me. I could not define it. I had no idea what it was. It was an
undercurrent, emotional and rather frightening, and it made me curious.
I did not even like him, but I certainly wanted to know more about him.

Miss Luffkin was pruning the ramblers which grow over her hedge. As far
as I know she never does anything else. Whenever I pass, be it winter or
summer or merely the right time of year for pruning, there she is,
secateurs in hand, snipping and brushing and tying and bending, while
her quick eyes turn this way and that and her green gardening bonnet is
never still.

I waved nonchalantly and sped by. I guessed she would stare after me and
probably glance at her watch, so that later, when I came back, she could
look at it again. It couldn’t be helped.

Peacocks is one of those sprawling Elizabethan houses that seem to be
nestling into the earth for warmth. As I pulled up, the front door
creaked open and Gastineau himself appeared. He was delighted but also
embarrassed to see me, I thought, and he came stiffly forward to open
the car door.

‘This is so kind that I am ashamed,’ he said in his clipped,
over-precise English as he led me into the house. ‘I did not mean to
drag you all the way out here. I merely have a little favour to ask, and
I seem to be making all the trouble in the world.’

He glanced at me out of the corners of his dull black eyes and I thought
again how extraordinarily ugly he was. He was a tall man who was bent
into a short one and his skin was sallow and stretched over his bones.
Worst of all, he gave one the impression that there had once been
something vital and attractive about his looks, but that he was a ghost
of himself and his deepset eyes were without light.

I did not sit down. ‘What can I do?’ I inquired briefly. ‘Surgery at
six, and I’ve got to get back.’

He grimaced. ‘Children with spots and old ladies with pains. An
extraordinary life for such a pretty woman. But you like it, don’t you?’

‘I love it,’ I admitted, ‘and I’m afraid I never find it even
distasteful.’

‘I see you don’t. You are more than clever, you are kind. That is more
rare,’ he said gravely. ‘That is why I have turned to you. Doctor, I
have to have an ambulance.’

It was so unexpected that I laughed and was sorry for it at once, he
looked so worried.

‘I realize I am being ridiculous,’ he said slowly. ‘I am—as they
say—in a flat spin. A most awkward and difficult thing has happened and
I have to do something about it. It is the widow of a very old friend
and compatriot of mine. I have just heard that she is alone and ill in
London. I fear she may be’—he hesitated and watched my face as he chose
a word—‘difficult, also.’

‘Nerves?’ I suggested. That was the usual story.

‘It may be more than that.’

‘Alcoholism?’

He threw out his stiff hands. ‘I do not know. It is possible, anything
is possible. All I can tell you is that I have to go to fetch her with
an ambulance and to bring her here.’

I felt my eyebrows go up. I was beginning to learn that there is
absolutely no depth of human folly to which the most unlikely patient
will suddenly descend, but I was still green enough to venture a
protest.

‘It sounds a very tall order,’ I began cautiously.

‘Does it? It is all I can do.’ He spoke with a queer obstinacy. ‘I
promised Maurice as he died that if there was ever anything I could do
for Louise, I would. Now the moment has come and I must have her here.’

‘It’s a great responsibility.’

He turned on me. ‘Please don’t think I do not know. I have thought it
out from every angle. For a week I have been deciding, but I know in my
heart that I must bring her home. Radek and Grethe will look after her,
and you, if you please, will come to see her and advise me. Then I shall
know I have done what I could.’

He watched me to see if I was impressed, and I was, of course. I was
glad to see him taking so much interest in a fellow human being. I had
not thought there was so much kindness or duty left in him. I only hoped
he knew what he was in for.

‘I can order an ambulance for you,’ I said gently. ‘It only seems odd
that her present doctor does not arrange it.’

‘Ah, I was afraid you would notice that.’ He smiled at me awkwardly.
‘She has quarrelled with him, of course. There is nobody to look after
her except the landlady, who says I must arrive with the ambulance. You
will come with me, won’t you, Doctor? You go to London on Saturdays.’

There I put my foot down. I was gentle, I hope, but firm. I could just
see Percy’s face if the ‘foreigner’ and I went gallivanting off to
London in the local bone-wagon. Besides, he was asking too much. My
Saturday trips to the capital were the week’s one escape from Mapleford,
and I felt my sanity depended on them. I was mildly surprised that he
knew so much about my habits.

I could not dissuade him. ‘But you could see her in London before she
leaves.’ He pleaded as though his life depended upon it, urgent as a
child, his eyes two dusky holes in his head.

I weakened. I knew it was silly, but I did, and I turned to the open
bureau in the corner to find a scrap of paper to write the address on.
He nearly wept with gratitude as he dictated it to me.

I am certain I should never have noticed the scrap of blue tissue
protruding from one of the tiny drawers which lined the desk if I had
not heard his sudden intake of breath and looked up just as he leaned
past me to thrust the thing out of sight. As it was, I hardly saw it at
all. I caught a glimpse of something which looked vaguely familiar and
then there was nothing there save his twisted and stiffened hand, which
was shaking violently.

When I glanced up at him in astonishment he was trying to laugh, but his
eyes were anxious, I thought.

‘It is a pigsty of a desk. That is what you are thinking, aren’t you?
Let me see what you have written. Yes, that’s right. The name is Louise
Maurice, the address 14 Barton Square, West 2.’

I was still rather surprised. I had plenty of patients who might have
thrown a fit if I had lighted on an unpaid gas bill or an overdue demand
for rates. Mapleford was full of them. But I did not think Gastineau was
quite the type. I was fairly certain he had been genuinely alarmed, and
I wished I had seen the blue slip more closely. It had suggested
something so familiar that I just could not place it.

My puzzled expression seemed to delight Peter Gastineau. He became quite
lighthearted, suddenly, and insisted on seeing me to the car.

‘I think I am a most brilliant judge of character,’ he remarked
unexpectedly as we shook hands in the drive. ‘You are kind but you are
also very practical, aren’t you, and you have a great sense of what is
expedient.’

‘I should be a menace as a doctor if I hadn’t,’ I said lightly and
climbed into the car.

‘And you are not forgiving?’ He had to raise his voice, since my foot
was on the starter, and the effect was to make the question sound
anxious and important. At the same moment I saw the clock on my
dashboard and let in the clutch.

‘I have a heart of flint,’ I shouted over my shoulder as I shot away. It
was only as I was waving to Miss Luffkin, who, as I had expected, was
waiting in the dusk to see me go by, that it occurred to me that it was
a most extraordinary remark for him to have made.

Percy was not on duty that night, and when I got back there was a crowd
at the surgery. The waiting-room was packed and I cursed socialized
medicine. To my mind its weakness was elementary, and I felt somebody
might have foreseen it. Since everyone was forced to pay a whacking
great weekly premium for medical insurance, nearly everybody, not
unexpectedly, thought they might as well get something out of it, and,
as far as Mapleford was concerned, the three who stood between nearly
everybody and the said something-out-of-it were Percy and his two
assistants, who had not been exactly idle before.

Percy hired us a secretary, paying her out of the private fortune his
wife left him, but she, poor girl, could not sign our names for us or
weigh up the merits of a claim, so the stream of importunates demanding
free chits to the dentist, free wigs, postal votes, corsets, milk,
orange juice, vitamin tablets, pensions, invalid chairs, beds,
water-cushions, taxi rides to hospital, crutches, bandages, artificial
limbs, and a thousand and one likely or unlikely requirements dogged us
wherever we went. As Percy said, it was almost a relief to find someone
who just had a pain.

To make matters more difficult, the more ignorant (and less sick) among
the crowds had lost their old respect for our calling, and treated us as
if we were officials trying to cheat them out of their rights. However,
I was not so dead against it all—except at surgery time—as was Percy.
I thought I should probably learn some way of coping with it in the end,
and meanwhile I strove to keep my mind clear and to remember at all
costs that I was a doctor first and a form-filler second.

That night I worked until I was in a lather. The secretary was close on
angry by the time I had finished, and was taking a couple of minutes to
listen to poor old Mr Grigson’s interminable tale of the strange noises
his chest made in the night. He is a retired sea captain, full of years
and dignity, and he had walked up to the surgery with his bronchitis
because ‘since he was not paying’ me any more he did not like to drag me
out to his cottage. I wished everyone was as thoughtful, but hoped it
had not killed him. In my gratitude and guilt I listened far too long
until the recital was ended abruptly by the telephone.

I fully expected the call to be from Rhoda, fuming over a spoiled meal,
but I had been too sanguine. The message, uttered in a child’s squeaky
voice, was brief but explicit. Mrs McFall had ‘begun’. I took down my
coat. Once Mrs McFall ‘began’ it was time for all men of good will to
get out the boats, man the defences, batten down the hatches, and call
out the fire brigade, and the fault was not hers, poor fecund lady, but
her husband’s. Mrs McFall had a fine baby every year, and had been doing
so with the beautiful regularity of sunrise or the autumnal equinox for
as far back as anyone remembered. But Mike McFall, her lorry-driving
husband, had never got himself used to the phenomenon. Each essay into
fatherhood came upon him as a new and terrible experience only to be
endured with the help of alcohol in such vast quantities that the man
was a raving lunatic throughout the whole affair.

Nurse Tooley ministered to the people in that area. She was a woman
after my own heart. Her courage made me ashamed of my own and her
endurance had to be observed to be credited. But even she felt Mrs
McFall’s ever recurrent crises were two-woman jobs. I had promised her
that if I was above ground the next time Mrs McFall ‘began’ I would be
there.

‘You deliver the child, Doctor,’ she said, ‘and I’ll control himself.’

So I had to go.

It was dawn by the time we had finished. As the first cock crew the
youngest McFall let out his first furious bellow at the world he had
hardly inherited, poor chicken, and soon after a stalwart neighbour and
her son agreed to take over the parents.

Nurse and I crept out into the grey light, and because she was if
anything more weary than I we loaded her bicycle on to the car and I
drove her home. Despite the hour, nothing would content her save that I
step in for a cup of tea. Her round red face was full of anxiety.

‘Sure I’ve got a little word I’d like to be saying to you, Doctor.’

I am easy, of course. Sometimes I hope it is not just weakness of
character. I staggered in. The cottage was tiny and neat as a doll’s
house, and as Nurse Tooley scurried about putting out china I sat in the
best chair and felt my eyelids grow sticky with sleep. There was
something rather special about this woman, I thought idly as I watched
her square energetic form, solid and strong as a cob pony. She was deft
and shrewd and loyal, and the idea shot into my mind that when John and
I got our children’s clinic we should need her. In an instant I had
remembered and the furious colour rushed into my face. It was the kind
of idiotic trick my subconscious was always liable to play on me
whenever I got over-tired.

Nurse handed me a steaming cup and sat down beside me.

‘You’re done up. You look flushed,’ she observed with concern. ‘I ought
not to have kept you out of your bed but I did want to speak to you.
You’re in trouble with the police, I hear.’

I blinked at her. ‘I sent Sergeant Archer home with a chip on his
shoulder after that accident on Castle Hill last week, if that’s what
you mean,’ I said. ‘He infuriated me. Fancy trying to get me to estimate
if the dead driver had been drunk, there and then in the roadway!
Especially as his hip flask had burst all over him.’

She shook her kind old head at my indignation.

‘It’s excited he was,’ she said. ‘But he’s a bad enemy, Doctor, and you
don’t want enemies in the force, though God knows it’s not my place to
be mentioning it to you. No, I was wanting to inquire about this
dangerous drug.’

That woke me up. I could just see what was happening now that Percy had
decided to shut the stable door well after the horses had been stolen. I
did my best to explain whilst keeping the irritation in my voice to a
minimum.

‘Dormital. Yes, I wrote it in my book as soon as Inspector Brush
mentioned it to me.’ Her Irish brogue was warm and deeply apologetic.
‘He told me to keep it under my hat but to keep my eyes open for it just
the same. You’ll not have had it stolen, Doctor, not in Mapleford, for
it’s not at all useful. If it had been a nice sizeable packet of
cascara, now, I wouldn’t have trusted some of them. No, you’ve let it
slip out of the car and someone has upped and slung it over the hedge.
Could you tell me what it was like at all, for if it’s found the chances
are I shall be having it brought to me?’

I had described my loss carefully to the Inspector and I had no need to
visualize it again.

‘Why, yes, I can,’ I said. ‘It was a white carton with some blue round
the edges—a narrow band, I think. There was printing on the outside,
just the usual details and guarantees. The carton had been opened and it
held a two-ounce capsule bottle with the seal unbroken. Oh yes, and
there was the ordinary literature inside, a flimsy, tightly printed blue
paper . . .’

My voice dried suddenly as I heard my own words. A _blue_ paper, tightly
printed!

‘What’s the matter, Doctor?’

‘Oh, nothing. Nothing of importance.’ I managed to sound normal and to
say good-bye and to get myself back into the car, but as I sped home
through the half-awake streets it went through my mind like a little
warning bell that perhaps I was making a silly mistake in being so sorry
for Gastineau and so ready to oblige him. The dreadful thing was that I
could not be sure, yet it could have happened. I had not called at
Peacocks Hall on the day I missed the Dormital, but I had seen Peter
Gastineau. It was just after I had been to call on Miss Luffkin. I had
left her safely in the house, for once, gargling her sore throat in the
bathroom, and I came out to the car to find Gastineau standing beside
it. I assumed he had just arrived after one of his little saunters down
the road which were all the exercise he was able to take, but of course
he might have been there much longer. . . .

I was thinking about it as I reached my bed and fell asleep, and it was
still in my mind when I woke a few hours later. The more I thought about
it the more awkward it became, but at the same time my conviction that
the blue paper was the same blue paper grew alarmingly. I half
considered going to old Percy, and I think I would have done in the end
had I not been so impossibly busy. As it was, the only immediate effect
of the whole incident was that I forgot to order the ambulance until I
was in the midst of a strenuous afternoon at the Friday Welfare Clinic.
I had to make the call from the phone on the desk, and I remember
thinking at the time that it was the most public telephone conversation
I had ever had. Every mother and half the babies listened to me as if I
was ordering a charabanc for an outing. There is not a lot of free
entertainment in Mapleford, and people certainly make the best of what
there is. By nightfall everyone in the place would know of Gastineau’s
visitor, her name, and where she came from and the exciting fact that I
would see her in London, that fabulous city.

I don’t know why it was, but I felt it was dangerous then.

Altogether it was a heavy week, and on Saturday morning it was a thrill
to put away my solid tweeds and climb into a silk suit and a squirrel
cape, to put on a silly hat which made me look twenty again, and to
drive off to the metropolis fifty miles away.

I had lunch at the Mirabelle with Edith Gower, an old buddy of mine. We
had heavenly food and one of those gossips which are good for the soul.
Afterwards we went to an exhibition of modern art and met two of her
friends who had pictures there, so just for a little while I wallowed in
a world as far away from Mapleford as it was possible to imagine. It did
me no end of good.

It was a quarter before four before I realized it and I had to make a
Cinderella exit and fly for Barton Square. It is no good pretending that
I did not regret my promise to Peter Gastineau just then. I wished him
and his poor Madame Maurice, if not at the bottom of the sea, at least
in the middle of next week. They would wait for me, I had no doubt, but
even so there was none too much time as I had promised to have tea with
Matron at St James’s at five.

I found Barton Square without much difficulty, and the narrow, slightly
tattered grey houses rose up like a cliff above me as I crept round it
looking for the number. To my astonishment there was no sign of the
ambulance. I hoped they had not run into trouble on the road.

Number 14 was a surprise, too. For one thing, it was shut up like a
Bedouin lady in walking-out costume. Drab curtains covered the windows
and there appeared to be no lights behind them. It was one of those
narrow slices of building with steps to the front door, and an area with
a lion’s cage of a railing round it. I went up and rang the doorbell. I
could hear its hollow clanging echoing through the hallway within, but
there were no answering footsteps.

For some time I stood waiting, the cold wind whipping round me.
Presently I rang again, and again I heard the bell, but still no one
came. I was beginning to wonder if there could be two Barton Squares in
the west of London when I thought I heard a movement in the basement
below me. I suppose I had grown so used to admitting myself into
patients’ houses in Mapleford that I did not hesitate. I scrambled down
the worn stone steps of the area and, skirting the ash-can, entered the
tiny porch which I found there. The inner door was closed and, after
knocking without results, I tried it.

My hand was on the knob when a most disconcerting thing happened. It
turned in my fingers as someone grasped it on the other side, and the
door jerked open, pulling me in with it so that I finished up with my
nose less than six inches from another face immediately above me.

‘Oh,’ I said inadequately.

To do him justice, the stranger seemed just as startled as I was. He was
a tall, middle-aged man with a gentle, vague expression. His good brown
suit was loose for him, and he clutched a well-brushed hat and a
carefully rolled umbrella. Just now he was hesitating, waiting for me to
speak first.

I must have been rattled, I suppose, for I said the first thing that
came into my head. I said: ‘Have you seen the ambulance?’

The question shocked him. I saw his eyes flicker and he said in a quiet,
pleasant voice which yet matched his vague expression: ‘Oh, there was an
ambulance, was there? Oh dear.’

I am afraid I am one of those people who can’t help going to the
assistance of the socially put out. Although I was half-way into someone
else’s house, and in the wrong if anyone was, I felt I ought to help
him, he looked so worried.

‘I’m Dr Fowler,’ I explained. ‘I’ve come to see a patient who, I
understand, is to be taken into the country by ambulance. Her name is
Maurice. Is this the right house?’

He peered at me in what seemed to be distress, and it occurred to me
that I must make a rather odd sort of doctor in my all too feminine
clothes, but apparently he did not doubt me.

‘Do you know, I really can’t tell you,’ he said at last, adding
sincerely, ‘I’m so sorry. No one seems to be in the house at all
except—well, perhaps you wouldn’t mind coming to see for yourself?’

He turned and, highly mystified, I followed him into a labyrinth of
those gloomy dungeons and subdungeons which our ancestors were pleased
to call ‘domestic quarters’.

The first, which was unfurnished as well as deserted, led to a second,
smaller room fitted up snugly enough as a kitchen. There, stolidly
eating her tea and toast, as if no one had been ringing a bell or
standing on a doorstep, was a large clean elderly woman with the eyes
and jaw movement of a cow in a field. She looked up as we appeared,
smiled pleasantly, and just went on eating. It was, I think, the most
unnerving welcome I have ever received.

As soon as I attempted to speak to her the mystery was solved. Still
smiling, but with the complete indifference of one who knows something
is hopelessly beyond her, she shook her head and with a forefinger
pointed first to one ear and then the other. She was stone deaf, poor
soul.

I opened my bag and was ferreting round in it for a pencil when a voice
murmured in my ear.

‘Well, you know, I fear that’s no good,’ muttered the man with the
umbrella. ‘She doesn’t read English. I tried that.’

‘What nationality is she?’

‘That’s it, I can’t find out.’ He sounded as helpless as I felt, and
added as if he thought I ought to have an explanation, ‘I just happened
to call, you see.’

I didn’t quite, as it happened, but it was the woman I was interested
in. At that moment she broke the silence. After taking a draught from
her cup, which looked as if it contained something boiling, she wiped
her mouth and, leaning back in her chair, spoke in the very loud
toneless voice of one who cannot hope to hear.

‘All gone.’ Her accent was unrecognizable and I could only just
understand her. ‘All gone.’ She smiled again. ‘No one.’ She was trying
hard and her hands illustrated the emptiness of the house above us.

‘Where?’ I was trying her with lip language and she watched me carefully
but shook her head. It was frightful. We were two intelligences with no
hope of communication.

‘Who?’ I tried again and she laughed.

I smiled back and shrugged my shoulders. There was nothing to do but go
away and I had turned when her unnatural bellow filled the room again.

‘Sick woman,’ she shouted.

I swung round eagerly and nodded to show we were on the right track.

‘Yes,’ I agreed. ‘Yes. Where?’

She sat thinking. I could see her doing it, her broad forehead wrinkled
and her eyes moving. Once or twice she began to frame a word, but it was
not an English one, I thought, and she always rejected it. Presently she
rose and pushed back her chair.

‘A-a-ah,’ she began cautiously. ‘Sick woman. Morter. Morter . . .’

‘Motor,’ muttered the man at my side. ‘I think she means motor car.’

I nodded at the woman, who smiled, well pleased.

‘Morter . . . whoosh . . . gone. Sick woman gone.’ She sank down once
more and pulled her plate towards her. We might not have been there.

The man with the umbrella accompanied me to the door, getting there
first to hold it open for me.

‘Dr Fowler,’ he began, giving me a tremendous start because I had
forgotten that I had introduced myself, ‘there was a cream ambulance
coming out of the square just as I came in.’

‘Really? When was this?’

He considered. ‘Now let me see. Yes. Yes, it must be just over an hour
ago.’ He was not at all happy, and his discomfort was nearly as evident
to me as my own. ‘It was caught up in the traffic,’ he continued
casually, ‘and I happened to notice that it came from a place called
Mapleford. Would that be the one, Doctor?’

‘Yes,’ I said absently. ‘Yes, that’s it. I wonder . . .’

I don’t know what made me glance squarely at him at that particular
moment, but I did, and what I saw set me back squarely on my heels. All
the vagueness had vanished from his pale eyes and for a split second
they were shrewd and hard and frighteningly intelligent. The next moment
he was his old, apologetic helpless self again, but I was frightened and
I bade him good afternoon and hurried off up the area steps, feeling
almost panicky.

Before I drove off to see Matron at St James’s I spoke to the officer on
point duty, and he confirmed that an ambulance had called on that side
of the square at about three o’clock.

I was furious. By that time I was disgusted with the whole business, and
there is one unalterable rule for a doctor who begins somewhat belatedly
to scent mystery: that is for him to wash his hands of the affair as
quickly and thoroughly as possible. I put the whole business firmly out
of my mind and did not think of it again until nearly half past eleven
that evening when I was driving home. By that time I was
better-tempered. The night was glorious and I had time to think. I
decided to give Gastineau and his lady friend a rest for a bit. It would
be quite easy for me to plead overwork and get young Dr Wells, Percy’s
other assistant, to take them over for a while.

By the time I turned into the familiar road I had almost forgotten
Gastineau, and I saw the light on in the cottage with dismay. Rhoda
never stays up for me when I go to town. She goes to the cinema first
and then to bed. She leaves me a jug of milk and a biscuit on the table,
and sometimes a few enlightening remarks scribbled on the pad. If she
was still up, something very unusual must be afoot.

I left the car just outside the garage and sneaked in by the back door.
Rhoda was in her basket chair, knitting furiously to keep herself awake.
As I appeared she glanced up and put a finger to her lips.

‘Who?’ I whispered.

‘He won’t go.’ She nodded at the inner door and, taking up a final
stitch, rolled up the vest she was making. ‘It’s that foreigner,’ she
murmured. ‘He came creeping in just as I was going to bed. Said he’d
been trying to telephone here all the evening and just had to come and
see you to satisfy himself.’ She paused, her bright eyes meeting mine.
‘I can’t say I think much of him now I’ve seen him.’

‘Nor do I,’ I agreed, keeping my voice down. ‘Why didn’t he go to Dr
Wells?’

‘Oh, he wouldn’t. He said it was personal.’ She was watching me with the
suspicion of a mother, ready to defend but prepared for the worst.

‘Rubbish,’ I declared wholeheartedly. ‘I’ll go and send him home. I’ve
never heard such nonsense.’

Her pink face cleared. ‘That is a weight off my mind,’ she said
unnecessarily. ‘I couldn’t see what you saw in him. Besides, I’ve had a
letter today from Southersham. It came by the second post and there’s
real news in it. Something _you’ll_ never guess.’

I am afraid I interrupted her. Rhoda would pause for a good gossip if
the house was on fire. Just then my mind was occupied. This development
was more than I had bargained for.

‘I suppose you do mean Mr Gastineau?’

‘That’s what he called himself.’ She conveyed it was probably a
pseudonym. ‘If you can get rid of him it’s more than I could without
taking my strength to him. Go and try. I’ll pop the kettle on, and when
you come back I’ll tell you my bit of news if you’re in a better
temper.’

Peter Gastineau was sitting by the fire, his elbows on his knees and his
long hands drooping between them. He got up stiffly when he saw me and
took a step forward. He was struggling with nervous excitement and his
black eyes had a light in them I had not seen before.

‘I wouldn’t have had this happen for the world,’ he began. ‘Doctor, you
must be so angry.’

‘Not at all.’ I was not so inexperienced that I was going to let the
party become in any way emotional. ‘I am very tired, I am afraid, but is
there anything I can do?’

‘I hope so.’ He spoke fervently. ‘I am in a dreadful predicament. I am
so frightened that I have made a most serious mistake.’ He sat down
again without being asked and I noticed a blue line round his mouth. ‘I
tried to catch you this morning, when I heard from London of the change
of plan. You’d gone, of course.’ He was not apologizing so much as
stating the case, and I had the wind taken out of my sails.

‘I gathered that the patient was removed earlier in the afternoon,’ I
observed acidly, and at once he was interested and even excited.

‘Oh, you did see someone, did you? That is good. Who did you find
there?’

‘A deaf woman and a man who was visiting her. What happened exactly?’

He did not reply directly. The discovery that I had not merely found the
door shut in my face seemed to engross him.

‘If you saw somebody, made yourself known to them, that’s something.’ He
spoke with relief and I found myself peering at him. He had changed
somehow. There was something new about him, and to my annoyance I could
not decide what it was. I wondered if he was stewing up for a nerve
crisis. He caught my expression and pulled himself together. ‘I am
almost beside myself,’ he explained awkwardly. ‘As you know, since . . .
since the war I have become such a lover of comfort and order and peace.
Any change of plan makes me jitter. This morning the good woman who has
been looking after Madame Maurice telephoned to say that the hour of
departure must be changed. I was in despair, you were in London and out
of reach. Finally I got hold of the ambulance people and with some
difficulty got them to go earlier.’

He took a deep breath and leaned back. The idea, apparently, was that I
should sympathize with him.

‘Well, if you got her here, that’s all right,’ I said soothingly. ‘There
was no need for you to come up here tonight.’

He opened his eyes wide. ‘But I came to fetch you. You must see her.’

‘Not tonight,’ I said firmly. ‘That’s out of the question. It’s very
late. Far better let her sleep now and I’ll come round in the morning.’

He seemed astounded. I saw a glimpse of something in his face which
startled me. I thought he was going to rave at me. It was a queer
expression, very fleeting and familiar. I have seen it on the faces of
tiny boys when they are suddenly deprived of something they want very
much. It is elemental rage, I suppose. Anyhow he controlled it and said
meekly enough:

‘She is so strange. Neither Grethe nor I know what is wrong. It is a
great responsibility.’

‘Have you taken her temperature?’

‘Grethe tried. It was impossible.’

‘Is she delirious?’

‘I am not sure.’

I put my temper under hatches. Here was a fine household to undertake
the care of an invalid.

‘Then you should have gone to Dr Wells, but it’s too late now, I’m
afraid. Look here, would you like to ring your housekeeper and see how
she is?’

He shook his head. ‘You must come back with me.’ He paused and added
devastatingly, ‘Without you I cannot very well get home. I made certain
you would come and so I sent my man back with the car. We could try to
telephone for a taxi, I suppose.’

Now that was a trump card, had he known it. I could just see myself
waking up old Chatterbox at the local garage and getting him to turn out
to take Gastineau away from my house at midnight on my day off duty. I
began to feel very angry indeed.

‘Very well,’ I said. ‘Put on your coat and I’ll run you back and take a
look at her.’ There was nothing else I could trust myself to say.

I got my own heavy tweed from the lobby and took him out through the
kitchen to the yard. Rhoda gaped at me and I let them both see that I
was not exactly pleased.

On the journey I said nothing at all, as far as I remember. After one or
two ineffectual attempts to interest me in my new patient, he gave up
and we raced on in silence.

There was a light in Miss Luffkin’s front room which went out as we sped
past, and I was unreasonably glad that the night had become so dark. All
the lights were on at Peacocks. The old house looked as though it were
celebrating something. Grethe, the housekeeper, a swart eastern European
with the most eager eyes I have ever seen in a woman, met us in the
hall. She spoke to Gastineau in a language I didn’t even recognize and
he turned to me.

‘Madame Maurice is in the guest room. Will you come up?’

‘Yes, I’ll see her since I’m here,’ I agreed ungraciously, but I did not
take my coat off.

I followed him up the polished staircase, which was black with age and
very wide, on to a large landing where Radek was waiting. I got the
impression that this solid wedge of a man, with the heavy face and
coarse yellow hair, had been sitting outside one of the doors, but I
could not be sure. He too said something to his employer and Gastineau
nodded and signalled him to leave us.

‘She’s here,’ he said, and without knocking opened a door on the extreme
right of the landing, facing the back of the house.

I went in first. It was one of those tremendous rooms which were
designed to house a family. There was a coal fire in the grate and not
much other light, and at the end of the plane of carpet I could see a
big old-fashioned bed with a canopy and chintz hangings.

Two things impressed me the moment I entered. One was that the patient,
whatever was wrong with her, was snoring more or less normally, and the
other that there was a violent smell of alcohol in the room. I think I
was saved from turning to box Gastineau’s ears by the recollection of
the story which little Mr Featherstone, the vet, had told me the week
before. He said his Christmas evenings were always spoiled by dowagers
who sent for him to see their apparently dying pets, and were furious
when he had to tell them that if they fed a dog on plum pudding and
brandy sauce they must not be surprised if they became tipsy.

I went over to the bed and looked down. It was so dark that I could only
make out a little face and a cloud of hair on the pillow. I spoke
without looking up.

‘May I have some more light, please?’

‘Of course.’ His voice sounded odd, husky with intense excitement. I was
concentrating on the patient at the time and although I noticed it I did
not pay much attention to it until afterwards. He had gone round to the
other side of the bed and now turned an unusually powerful reading lamp
on the two of us. It almost blinded me. I waved it down a bit.

The woman lying before me was scarcely thirty and must, I reflected, be
quite beautiful when her face was less flushed and mouth less slack. Her
fair hair was bleached but very lovely and it spread round her head on
the pillow like a halo. I don’t know if I am particularly stupid or
unobservant, but I do know that my training has taught me to concentrate
only on certain details of a patient’s face. It has happened that I have
not recognized a woman whom I have been treating for weeks when I have
met her some time later in the street. Anyhow, I know that on that
night, up in the vast guest room at Peacocks, it was fully five minutes
before the message which was hammering on the back of my mind suddenly
got through my professional concentration and I looked at the woman and
realized who she was.

Francia Forde.

I had never studied her photographs consciously and I had never seen her
films, but now that I was confronted by her I knew it was she as surely
as if I had lived with her half my life. In one way I suppose I had. It
was one of those revelations which are at once terrifying and shaming. I
saw just how much and minutely I must have thought about her, and just
how avidly my subconscious mind must have seized on every little trick
and detail of her face.

I found I knew the moulding of her cheek and the faint hollow beside her
temples as well as I knew the lines round Rhoda’s mouth. There were
differences I hadn’t expected, tiny blemishes the camera had not shown.
This woman had not been doing herself much good just recently. There was
a network of tiny lines, finer than a spider’s web, on her eyelids. But
she was still lovely. So lovely that the old helpless feeling settled
down over my heart without my daring to question why or whence it came.

It was some seconds before I realized that I was being watched from the
other side of the bed and I wondered if I could have given myself away.
Gastineau couldn’t have known anything about my private life, whatever
the explanation of Francia Forde’s appearance in his house might be.
That was one thing I was certain of.

Fortunately I have a poker face by nature and my training has
strengthened the gift. If I am scared or even very interested I am
mercifully merely liable to appear preoccupied, and when he said at
last, ‘Well, Doctor?’ I felt sure he had noticed nothing.

I returned to my job with relief, remembering that it was nothing to do
with me who the woman was or why she was there. All I had to decide was
what was wrong with her. That was not very difficult. She showed no
inclination to awake, but she was by no means unconscious and when I
shook her gently she flung away from me with an incoherent word.

‘Was she like this when you collected her this afternoon?’ I inquired.

‘Not so sleepy.’ He sounded doubtful and I wondered whether he could be
really so stupid as he appeared to be.

‘Yes, well,’ I said, ‘she’s been taking a considerable amount of some
sort of sedative, which you will probably find among her luggage if you
look, and to put it bluntly she has also had a great deal of alcohol.
You will doubtless find the source of that too if you use your eyes.’

I was falling back on an excessive formality because I was both annoyed
and shaken.

‘I should look under the bed valance, behind the curtains, and of course
in her suitcases.’

He nodded. He was not going to pretend complete ignorance, I was glad to
see.

‘I can hardly believe it,’ he said, coming round the bed, and walking
down the wide room with me. ‘It doesn’t seem possible. She’s a very fine
actress, you know.’ He shot a little quizzing glance at me on the last
word or two, but I was in an odd emotional state just then and I didn’t
want to discuss her, or even to find out if I was right about her
identity. I just wanted to get out of that dreadful room.

‘Really?’ I sounded uninterested. ‘Well, I’m afraid I can’t help her any
more. Take away any alcohol or any drugs you may find. Give her bismuth
or something of the sort in the morning, and if she is very excitable,
one ounce and no more of whisky at eleven. By tomorrow night you should
know whether the trouble is—er, chronic or not.’

To my discomfort I heard him laugh very softly.

‘You’re very businesslike.’

‘I’m also very tired. Perhaps you’ll forgive me if I get away now.’

I moved towards the door and he came after me.

‘When will you come again?’

‘You may not need me any more,’ I said cheerfully. ‘There’s nothing very
wrong with her. This may not be a regular thing. But if it is, you’ll
need rather different advice from any I could give you. Good night, Mr
Gastineau. No, don’t come down. I can find my way out.’

He hobbled to the stairhead with me and looked down as I descended. I
heard his murmur just above me and the words were so extraordinary that
I thought I must have mistaken them.

‘Courage,’ I thought I heard him say half to himself and half to me.
‘That was the only thing I doubted.’

I glanced up sharply but he was simply smiling and nodding.

‘Good night, Doctor. It was very good of you. Thank you. Good night.’

I did not realize I was so shaken by the whole business until I got out
into the air. As my hands gripped the steering wheel I found they were
trembling. This alarmed me as much as anything, for my life is based on
the premise that I am a sensible, unshockable sort of person. I am one
of those who have never thought mystery, doubt, or drama in any way
exciting. I hate the lot of them. My instinct is to scramble stolidly to
my feet whatever happens to me, like one of those toys which are
weighted at the bottom, and the result is that I seldom get rattled and
am made twice as bad by noticing it when I do.

As soon as I got the car going it occurred to me very forcibly that if
Gastineau’s Madame Maurice was really Francia Forde (I admitted there
was a strong chance I had made a crazy mistake here) there was something
very odd indeed about her arrival in Mapleford, and the sooner I made a
graceful escape from the affair the better.

I was reflecting on the most practical way of arranging this, and was
thinking that Wells would be a more sympathetic ally than Ludlow, when I
was pulled up by someone who walked out into the road and waved a torch
at me. I trod hard on the brakes before I realized that I was just
outside Miss Luffkin’s house.

There she was, wrapped up like a bundle of laundry, her thin excited
face peering out at me from under a sou’wester tied on with a Liberty
scarf.

‘Oh, Doctor it _is_ you.’ I was aware of her eyes noting that I was
hatless and had a silk suit on under my ulster. ‘I’ve been so worried
about those poor people down at Peacocks. I saw the ambulance go by. Is
someone very bad, Doctor?’

I have sometimes thought that Lizzie Luffkin’s curiosity is quite as
pathological as her popeyes, an overactive thyroid gland. I don’t
believe she can help it. Even she must have known that the solicitude in
her voice was unconvincing. The sight of the ambulance must have acted
like a red rag to a bull on her, and not knowing the explanation for
five or six hours must have been pure agony.

‘Nothing serious,’ I said with forced heartiness. ‘Just an old friend of
Mr Gastineau’s come to convalesce.’

‘Oh, I see, a friend.’ Her disappointment was so obvious that it was
funny. She clung to the door of the car, eager for just a scrap more
gossip. ‘You are out very late, Doctor.’

‘Yes, I am, aren’t I?’ I shouted above the engine I was revving. ‘But so
are you. Good night.’

I shot away into the darkness, hoping I had not been too abrupt and
should pay for it. In ten minutes I was home and I put up the car and
walked into the kitchen. If Rhoda was sometimes a thorn in my flesh,
there was nothing like that about her now. She was the one person in the
whole world whom I knew to be unshakably on my side. As always, whenever
I needed a really sober-minded confidante, she was there.

I told her who I thought was at Peacocks Hall. I can see her now turning
away from the stove, the kettle in one firm red hand. There was no smart
comeback, no undue surprise.

‘Are you sure?’

‘No, and I can’t believe it. It’s too ridiculous. Have you got that
photograph you were showing me the other day?’

She got it for me at once out of her own private drawer, the middle one
of the dresser, and spread it on the table for me to see.

I stood looking at it carefully for some time. I could see where it had
been touched up, where the line of the jaw had been sharpened and the
eyelashes drawn in. But the other facts were all there. It was not a
usual face, not even one of a type. The contours were definite and
convincing, the features line for line the same.

‘Is it?’ Rhoda came to stand beside me and put a heavy hand on my
shoulder, a possessive gesture she seldom permits herself.

‘I think it is,’ I said slowly. ‘It’s either her or a double. It’s not
sense, though, Rhoda. How could she be here calling herself Maurice?’

‘_He’s_ calling her Maurice,’ she corrected me with typical
reasonableness. ‘Besides, it’s not quite so funny as you seem to think.
You’ve not seen the paper today, have you?’ She was ferreting under the
radio table, where she keeps current reading matter, as she spoke, and
soon came back with a copy of her favourite daily. ‘I noticed this when
I was reading at lunch-time.’

It was a small news item, one of those five-line affairs tucked into the
foot of the column.

    STAR TO REST. Friends of Miss Francia Forde, the screen actress,
    say that the star is to take a few days’ complete rest in the
    country after the ardours of making still pictures for the
    ‘Moonlight Girl’, a new advertising campaign due to begin in the
    Press on Monday.

I read it through two or three times before it made any sense to me.

‘That’s all very well,’ I said at last. ‘But I don’t see why she should
come down here in an ambulance. I don’t see why Gastineau should tell me
this Maurice story or why she should be staying with them.’

‘Perhaps she’s hiding.’

‘Who from? She’s very well known but she’s not one of the American
top-liners. There aren’t armies of fans hounding her.’

Rhoda had become very thoughtful. If I had been more myself I should
have noticed that tightening of the lips and the lowering of the thick
determined brows, and might have been on guard.

‘You’re not satisfied, are you?’ she inquired, and the slightly hopeful
note in her tone irritated me instead of warning me.

‘Well, of course I’m not,’ I burst out angrily. ‘How can I be? I’m
persuaded to send an ambulance to London to fetch a woman who appears to
be no more than very tipsy, and when I see her I recognize her as . . .
well, as somebody other than the person she is represented to me to be.’

‘Ah,’ said Rhoda, taking a beaker from the dresser with the idea of
pouring us a hot drink to take to bed, ‘you are like your father when
you talk like that. I can hear him this minute. My word, he’d be wild!’

‘The extraordinary thing is that she should come _here_,’ I went on,
ignoring the reference to Father, although it had its comforting side.

She paused, jug in hand, and turned a pink face to me.

‘Coincidences do happen. That’s life. I’ve seen it a hundred times. Some
people call it fate and some people call it religion, but whatever it is
there’s no denying it happens.’

I always find Rhoda rather difficult to bear when she gets on this
theme. It is one of her favourites and there is no stopping her. I took
up my beaker and edged for the door.

‘You can run,’ she said warningly, ‘you can run, but it’ll catch you.
This is a coincidence, and it’s more of a one than you know. You get
some sleep.’

In my ignorance I felt this remark of hers was the only one that
contained any reason at all, and I went off to bed feeling that at least
there was some solace there.

Despite my worries, I felt the slow anaesthesia of sleep creeping over
me the moment I pulled up the blankets. Just before I slipped away into
unconsciousness I remembered two things. The first was that I had not
asked Rhoda what news the letter from our old home had brought her, and
the second that in my preoccupation with the patient I had not tackled
Gastineau about the scrap of blue paper I thought I had seen on his
desk. Even in my drowsing state this last seemed a formidable
proposition, and I sailed away into oblivion without making up my mind
how to tackle it.

The next day began quite normally for a Sunday. That is, I was up very
late and only partially by mistake. I fear I leave the worst of my
paperwork—and there is no end to it in these days—to Sunday morning,
and I settled down to a mountain of hospital reports on patients I had
sent there, about a quarter to eleven. I had not forgotten Francia Forde
by any means, but I was trying to get her out of my mind. It was not
just Francia. She brought back too many unbearable memories altogether.
I was still stunned by the knowledge that she had got so close to me.

The only unusual element that morning was provided by Rhoda. Once or
twice I wondered if she was ill. She bustled about as if she was
thinking of spring cleaning, and for ten minutes we had a wrangle
because she objected to my clothes. I was very comfortable in slacks and
a twin set, and her remarks on my ‘slovenliness’ and my ‘nice new red
wool upstairs’ completely bewildered me. In the end I got the better of
her by insisting on taking her temperature. It was normal but her pulse
was slightly quick, and I recommended a sedative. She left me alone
after that but I heard her go out to the back gate several times, which
was puzzling, for no one goes calling in Mapleford on a Sunday.

The sound of the car pulling up in the road outside filled me with
sudden apprehension that Gastineau had come for me again. He seemed to
have no idea that a doctor might have any hours. Also I guessed that his
patient, if not in any danger, might well be feeling pretty sick by this
time.

I got up and tiptoed across the room to peer out of the small window
overlooking my minute front garden, so that I should get fair warning.

I pulled the curtain back half an inch and the next moment stood
petrified, every nerve in my face tingling as if I had pressed it to a
network of live wires.

John Linnett was standing at the small iron gate.

For a long time I simply did not believe it. I watched him hesitate,
glance nervously at the cottage, and then fumble with the latch through
his heavy driving glove.

He looked much older, and there was a touch of apprehension in his
expression which I had never seen there before. It may sound absurd to
say so, but I knew it really was John because of the changes in him.

The car he had come in, a low roadster covered with dust, stood in the
lane behind him, empty, so he was alone. Of course. The sudden
explanation of his sudden arrival broke over me like a wave. He had come
to find me because Francia was at Peacocks, and I was supposed to be
attending her. My scattered wits came together with a jerk. I felt my
expression setting and becoming hard and brittle and very bright. If I
had had any sense at all, I suppose, I should have expected him to
appear on the scene sooner or later.

I threw open the window at once. ‘Hallo, John.’

‘Ann.’ He came stamping over the garden, his coat skirts flying and his
hands outstretched. I saw how thin he was, suddenly, and how the bones
of his face stood out. ‘My dear girl, thank God you’re all right.’

It was the most unlikely and most unexpected approach, and it floored me
as nothing else would have done. He took my hands through the window and
looked anxiously into my face.

‘What’s happened? What’s the matter? I came at once, of course.’

The whole thing was beyond me. My new hard cheerfulness cracked
completely. I was only aware that he was there, trying to get into the
house, and, apparently, through the window.

Rhoda opened the front door. I heard her say something to him and the
next moment he was in the room, filling it. The nervous energy which I
remembered in him so well had become intensified. His narrow eyes were
eager and still terribly anxious.

‘You look all right,’ he said with relief. ‘You haven’t altered at all.
In fact you’re better. Lost your puppy fat. What is it, Ann? What’s
happened? I got the telegram early this morning and I’ve been driving
ever since.’

There was a passage of stupefied silence from me, and a movement from
Rhoda lurking in the doorway.

‘I sent it.’ Her tone was flat and her face expressionless, save for a
faint gleam of belligerence in her eye. ‘I put your name, Miss Ann,
because I thought that Mr John might not remember mine. As soon as you
came in last night and said you weren’t satisfied I knew it was my
duty.’

The barefaced wickedness of it took my breath away, but the thing that
foxed me utterly was how she’d known where to send. She answered that
one as if I’d asked the question.

‘I got a letter yesterday from my niece in Southersham. I was going to
tell you about it but you were too busy to listen. She told me that
she’d heard down there that Mr John was attached to the hospital at
Grundesberg in Northamptonshire, so last night, when you’d gone to bed,
I got on the telephone and sent a telegram to him there.’

I said nothing. There was nothing to say. She gave me a defiant stare
and opened the door.

‘I’ve got the lunch to see to,’ she said as if I was thinking of
disputing it. ‘I’m doing something special because I expected Mr John.
You still care for pancakes, I expect, sir?’

‘I do,’ he said without thinking and returned to me. His expression was
not only anxious now, but somehow frightened. ‘I thought _you_ sent,’ he
said. ‘I thought _you_ wanted me for something. The telegram just said,
“I think you had better come at once, Ann Fowler.” and gave the
address.’

It was his dismay that got me. The utter disappointment came out so
clearly that if I had been only half as sensitive where he was concerned
it would have reached me. I found I knew him as if he had never been
away.

‘If you’ve driven from Grundesberg this morning you must be exhausted.’
I said hastily. ‘Sit down and I’ll get you a drink. We’ll thrash this
out in a minute.’

He laughed and it was a laugh I had known from childhood.

‘I haven’t even shaved. The thing got me out of bed at dawn. What’s the
mystery? What aren’t you satisfied about?’

I had my back to him, since I was fixing a highball on the sideboard.

‘Rhoda got scared by something I said last night,’ I began with a
casualness which was not convincing even to me. ‘I was called out to a
new patient and she turned out to be . . . Francia Forde.’

‘Oh.’ His disinterest was startling. ‘Is she down here? I thought I read
somewhere that she was setting up as an advertising model.’

I swung round to look at him blankly and he took the glass from my hand.

‘I’ve not seen her in four years,’ he said slowly. ‘I shouldn’t get
involved in any of her machinations if I were you, Ann. She’s a
dangerous piece of work.’

I don’t drink whisky as a rule, but I had poured a highball for myself
and now, in sheer absent-mindedness, I swallowed it almost whole, nearly
choking myself. I had tears in my eyes and was gasping for breath and I
said the first thing that came into my head.

‘John, what happened to you?’

He met my eyes steadily but he was ashamed, even frightened, and
desperately miserable.

‘God knows, Ann.’

That was all, but I knew about it suddenly, or I knew a very great deal.

Rhoda came in to set lunch at that juncture. She was very busy being the
model housekeeper, keeping her eyes downcast and wearing the wooden
expression of one who has withdrawn completely from any awkward
situation she may have precipitated.

Because I wanted to talk to him so badly and found it so easy I asked
John about Grundesberg.

‘Understaffed and overcrowded. The usual story in that kind of
district,’ he said easily. ‘Just the place to catch up on one’s general
work. I’ve been there nearly eighteen months, ever since I was
demobbed.’

‘But I thought . . .’ I began before I could stop myself, ‘I mean I
thought you came out in ’45.’

‘No,’ he said coolly. ‘I got some extended leave then and set about
making a goddam fool of myself in a pretty big way, but after that I
sneaked back into the army and went to the Far East.’

‘Hence the—silence,’ I murmured.

He said nothing at all. He did not even look at me. Rhoda saved us by a
remarkable entrance, the silver soup tureen which we never use held
high.

That meal was a revelation to me. I knew she had her secret store
cupboard stocked against Christmas (or another war, perhaps) but I had
no idea that it could produce anything like that. She waited on us, too,
putting on a remarkable act which was part Maître of the Ritz and part
Nanny at the party.

John began to enjoy himself. I had seen it happen to him so often in our
childhood. The prickles drew in and the silences grew fewer. He began to
laugh and to tease us both indiscriminately. No one mentioned the
telegram, I think we forgot it deliberately. This was a dispensation, a
time of sanctuary, something that might never come again.

After the meal we sat by the fire while the shadows grew long outside.
There was so much to tell about the present that there was no need to
speak of anything else, and we were chattering, and eating some filberts
which Rhoda produced, as contentedly as if we were back in my schoolroom
at Southersham.

I spoiled it. We were talking of his life in Grundesberg and he was
giving me a highly comic if horrific description of the lodgings he
shared with the other house surgeon when I said suddenly and without any
excuse at all:

‘Are you still married to that woman, John?’

It was like breaking a gaily coloured bubble. The light went out in our
little make-believe Sunday afternoon of a world.

‘Yes,’ he said, and added flatly, ‘I suppose so.’

I said nothing more, and after a long time he began to talk. At first I
hardly heard what he was saying because I had made the panic-stricken
discovery that his being here made the kind of difference to my life
that colour makes to a landscape. It made sense. I had never before
dared let myself believe that that could happen.

‘If I stop telling you I shall stop making excuses for myself,’ he was
saying, ‘and there aren’t any. When I realized exactly what I had done,
I decided that I was mental and I went right away. I meant to stay away,
and I did . . .’ He turned on me with sudden anger. ‘Damn you, Ann. I
was all right until I got that telegram.’

‘So was I.’ It slipped out before I could stop it.

I could hear the words breaking like a little crystal dish on stone.

He lunged clumsily out of his chair and caught me as I sat, pushing his
rough cheek into my neck and holding my shoulder blades with heavy,
well-remembered hands. There was no helping it, no stopping it. I put my
hands into his hair and held him close while my heart healed.

Percy Ludlow had to tap at the french windows twice before we heard him
at all. The room was fairly dark, but he is not exactly blind and he was
pink and apologetic when at last I got over there to admit him.

He had walked across the meadow with a packet of the endless papers
which dogged our existence, and at first he was disposed to thrust them
at me and depart, but I forced him to come in and be introduced.

‘This is Dr Ludlow, John,’ I said. ‘I told you, I’m his assistant. And
this is Dr Linnett, Dr Ludlow. We were brought up together in
Southersham.’

Percy gave me one of his sidelong glances.

‘I formed the impression that you were old friends,’ he said primly. ‘I
can’t think why I haven’t heard of you before, young man. She’s a very
close young woman, Dr Fowler, almost secretive.’

I thought that at any moment he was going to inquire how long ‘this’ had
been going on, but I got him into a comfortable chair and was on the
point of seeing about some tea when Rhoda came in without ceremony.

‘You didn’t hear the phone, did you?’ she said. ‘It’s the gentleman from
Peacocks, and that you must go down to see her. He said he’d come for
you if he didn’t hear.’

‘Eh, what’s that? Is that the foreigner?’ Percy startled Rhoda, who had
not seen him.

‘Mr Gastineau.’ I glanced sharply at John to see if he would recognize
the name, but clearly it meant nothing to him. He was standing in front
of the fire with his chin up and the most obvious and reckless
expression of delight in his eyes.

Percy grunted. ‘A woman down there now?’ he inquired.

‘I understand it’s a Madame Maurice,’ I explained cautiously. ‘He
brought her from London yesterday and fetched me up late to look at her.
My impression was that she was mainly tipsy.’

‘More than probable.’ He jerked his chin up to show his complete
distrust of all the millions in the world who had not got themselves
born as close to Mapleford as possible. ‘Perhaps you’d better run down,
though, eh?’

This was just like him. He would reproach me for visiting Peacocks at
all and then insist that I answer the first telephone call at speed. It
irritated me because I had been expecting Gastineau to ring all day,
and, since I was convinced that there was no one very ill there, I was
going to cajole Wells to take the call for me. Wells is an outspoken
young man and I felt he might do everybody a bit of good. Percy made all
this impossible. I knew once I started to explain he would infer that
Gastineau had been making passes at me, and nothing I could say would
convince him otherwise.

Rhoda piled on the agony by remarking that the ‘foreign gentleman’
wouldn’t take no for an answer.

Percy nodded at me. ‘You change into a Christian skirt and pop down and
settle the trouble,’ he said cheerfully. ‘Dr Linnett and I will have a
smoke until you come back. It won’t take you ten minutes.’

I have given up wondering at Percy’s impudence. I knew he was dying to
get the lowdown on what he clearly thought was a new romance of mine. I
felt John was going to have quite an experience, and I hoped he was up
to that kind of catechism.

With a stab I realized that the chances were that he would say more to
Percy, who was another man and a stranger, than he would to me, and that
perhaps I would have to hear some of it secondhand. Yet I thought I
could guess most of it.

At any rate, I got into my red wool and a coat faster than ever in my
life, and was out on the road in less than five minutes.

I drove as if I was flying. The whole world seemed to have suddenly
turned inside out and become marvellous. I knew nothing of John’s story
except the one thing that I suppose really mattered to me. He was in
love with me still. I never doubted it. Whatever had happened was
nothing to me. Whatever was coming to me, I did not care. Whatever the
difficulties were, I felt certain we’d get over them. There was
happiness ahead, real useful lives and happiness. It never occurred to
me to remember I had something to forgive.

I was singing to myself, I think, as I drove down the lane. Certainly I
waved at Miss Luffkin’s house whether she was at the window to see me or
not, and I pulled up outside Peacocks with a screech of brakes and a
flurry of gravel.

Radek opened the door to me. His English was more than sketchy but he
bowed to make up for it and said: ‘Come, please,’ and led me to the
staircase.

I ran up it, I remember, striding across the landing behind him with an
eagerness I had not known since my student days.

Grethe opened the bedroom door to me and I noticed that she was very
pale. It was not so dark as on the night before. There was still some
light from the windows and there was a lamp by the bed, but when
Gastineau rose up from the shadows by the fireplace he took me by
surprise. I had not expected him to be sitting there in the
semi-darkness.

It was as I caught sight of him and was about to speak that I heard
something from the bed that sent a chill through me. I turned away from
him abruptly, so that he stood with hand still outstretched, and went
over to it.

Francia Forde lay flat on her back, the light from the reading lamp full
on her face.

She was breathing very slowly, with the deep stertorous respirations of
coma, and her face was almost unrecognizable, it was so congested. I
took her hand and it was flaccid and limp as a doll’s.

No one came near me as I made my examination. I was quick, but as
thorough as I knew how to be, and every new discovery filled me with
more and more alarm.

She had no reflexes. I could not believe it. I tested her again and
again, motioning to Grethe to come closer and give me the help I needed.
It was no good. I tried her eyes and found the pupils semi-dilated,
which puzzled me. Her temperature was up a little, not very much.

My bewilderment increased. This was no logical continuation of the
condition in which I had seen her eighteen or so hours before. My
experience was not vast like Percy’s but I was competent. I should never
have made a mistake of that magnitude. At midnight this woman had been
suffering from acute alcoholism, not very serious and one of the
simplest things in the world to diagnose. Now she was in a deep coma
which could have only one end, unless a miracle intervened.

I put some questions to Grethe, who answered them promptly, and my
suspicions grew into terrifying certainty.

‘How long has she been breathing like this?’ I inquired.

The woman shrugged her shoulders and looked blank, so I put the vital
inquiry into words.

‘What has she taken during the day? What drug?’

This time Grethe decided not to understand me at all. She appealed to
Gastineau and he came forward into the circle of light.

‘This morning she was very excitable,’ he began softly, ‘almost
demented. No one could do anything with her. Then at last she dropped
into a sleep. At first no one worried, but at four o’clock Grethe came
up and was frightened, I think.’

She nodded vigorously and turned away. I didn’t realize that she’d gone
out of the room until I heard the door close softly.

‘I shall need her,’ I murmured. ‘Will you call her back please? I am
afraid Madame Maurice is very ill.’

The news did not surprise him. His quiet dark eyes met mine.

‘I will ring in a moment. Before that, though, there is something I
should say to you, Doctor.’ He looked towards the bed. ‘You know who
this is, don’t you?’

I was silent a fraction too long and I heard him sigh.

‘Of course you do. You recognized her last night. Francia Forde, one of
our leading film stars. A face that is very well known.’

He startled me horribly, not because he had told me anything new but
because of a definite change in his attitude towards me. I took refuge
in my most professional manner.

‘I hardly think her identity is of any great importance just now.’ I
said briskly. ‘What does matter is her condition. I tell you frankly
that she has taken something since I saw her last,
something—er—something of a strongly narcotic character, and if we are
to save her life it is vital that I should know what it is. Do I make
myself clear?’

I realized that things were going very wrong as I finished speaking. He
showed no sign of any kind of feeling. He was not alarmed or worried or
even particularly interested.

‘You may be right,’ he said gently. ‘She was in a very strange mood when
I persuaded her with such great difficulty to come with me into that
ambulance which you so kindly arranged to send.’

I could hardly credit it, but there was, I was sure of it, a very
definite emphasis on that last observation. It shook me. I certainly had
hired the ambulance for him and because of one thing and another half
the town was aware of the fact. However, there was nothing awkward in
that unless . . . ?

The idea which had come into my head was so melodramatic that I
discounted it at once. People were kidnapped from time to time as I knew
from the papers, but when they were, surely they were never brought to
ordinary places like Mapleford by ordinary people like Gastineau?

He had been watching me for some little time and presently he said
something which set me back on my heels, while the hairs prickled on my
scalp.

‘I came to live in Mapleford solely because of you, Doctor. Did you know
that?’

‘No,’ I declared, ‘and I can’t think—’

‘Do forgive me for interrupting you.’ His voice was gentle, even
pleasant. ‘I know how anxious you are to get on with your work. I just
want to tell you that I felt sure you would recognize Francia Forde when
you saw her, and I also felt that you would appreciate my introducing
her here under a name that was not so well known as her own. There is
some sort of etiquette in these matters, I think.’

‘I had never seen Miss Forde before last night,’ I began boldly.

‘No.’ He smiled at me as if he were explaining some small social matter.
‘But you knew of her and you had good cause to—what shall we say—think
of her quite a lot?’

There was a long silence. I think I was more terrified in that minute
than ever before in my life.

He remained looking as I had always known him, bent and stiff and
quietly polite.

‘I think I am right when I guess that had you known who my Madame
Maurice was you would have hesitated to associate yourself with any
illness she might contract. You do realize how far you are committed,
don’t you, Dr Fowler?’

Did I? Francia Forde was dying from a dose of poison, either
self-administered or given her by this terrifying man in front of me. If
there was ever any inquiry at all, it must emerge at once that it was
_I_ of all people who had cause not only to hate her but, since this
afternoon, to be anxious to get her out of the way. As I cast around me,
every circumstance in the past few days seemed to conspire to point at
me.

I got a grip on myself. ‘I think I must ask you to get other advice.’ I
heard the well-worn formula creep out in a little thin voice I scarcely
knew. ‘Since you’re—you’re so well informed, you’ll understand that in
the circumstances I really—really couldn’t take the responsibility.’

‘But of course you could and of course you will.’ He spoke to me as if I
were some kind of frightened child, scared of an exam. ‘You’ll do your
utmost for my poor friend Madame Maurice, widow of an East European
refugee. I fear it may be a long business. Pneumonia may intervene even,
and if at last the worst should happen, then we know that a constitution
weakened by alcoholism does often succumb to any acute pulmonary
infection. Isn’t that so?’

He was talking like a medical book, trying to put a formula into my
mouth which could appear on a death certificate.

I gaped at him. Only the dreadful breathing from the bed convinced me
that I was awake and facing reality.

It was an invitation to connive at murder. More than that, it was a
threat, with my career and even my life as the alternative.

‘This is nonsense.’ I murmured. ‘You’re making an idiotic mistake. I
must ask you to go to the telephone and call another doctor. Someone
must treat this woman immediately, but it can’t be me.’

‘Don’t you think so?’

As he spoke he stretched out his hand and slipped something into mine.

I looked down at it. It was the Dormital bottle and it was empty.


                                PART TWO

The great bedroom with its glistening black beam stretching across the
low ceiling, and its diamond-paned windows letting in the last of the
light, became very still.

The fire stirred and flared and a coal fell on to the hearth with a
ghost of a clatter. Peter Gastineau did not move. He stood a foot or so
away from me, looking at me steadily with his expressionless eyes.
Downstairs someone was rattling crockery and there was the sound of
footsteps and a door closing.

I remained looking down at the little bottle in my hand. I had never
thought so quickly or so clearly and it was natural that I should have
done it in the way I had been taught.

In this predicament I was thinking medically, sorting out the things I
knew for certain from the things that were as yet doubtful, and putting
myself in the background and the life of the patient first. Now that I
knew what the trouble was, and understood what had happened to the
snoring bundle of humanity on the bed, every other consideration slid
into second place. There had been fifty tablets in the bottle, each one
five grains. I raised my eyes to Gastineau.

‘Where did you get this?’

‘From a shelf in the bathroom.’ He pointed to a door which I had
supposed to lead into a cupboard and turned back to meet my gaze
impudently. ‘I had never seen it before, of course.’

He was being the worried host again, completely acquiescent, leaving
everything in my hands. Our conversation of a moment before might never
have occurred.

As any doctor can explain, I ought at that moment to have fled. That
move was the one thing that might have saved me. If I had done anything
but stay—run to Percy, the police, anyone—I might just possibly have
saved my own skin, but the woman would have died.

I didn’t run. I thought she had an outside chance. People had survived
larger doses.

As for the man in front of me, the fact that he was a potential
murderer, that the Dormital was the Dormital I had lost, that he had
trapped me deliberately, all these things still remained half proved.
Had they been medical facts I should not have been justified in acting
upon them from the evidence I had so far. I decided not to now. Besides,
let me be honest, I was not afraid of Gastineau. I thought I knew him
and could manage him. So I made up my mind and walked straight into
nightmare.

‘We must get a nurse at once,’ I said.

He sighed. It was a little sound of pure relief. That ought to have
settled it. It was my last chance, my last warning. I ignored it.

‘Where is the telephone?’

‘There is one in the hall and an extension in my sitting-room. Is there
anything I can do?’

‘Yes, please. Get me Mapleford 234 and I’ll follow you down.’

As soon as he was out of the room I went to the door and discovered, as
I had hoped, that the key was still there. I took it and locked the
patient in, and then I went downstairs. I suppose I thought it was going
to be as easy as that.

The hall telephone was near the entrance and as soon as I came up
Gastineau stepped back and handed me the receiver. He did not leave me,
though. I could hear him breathing as he hovered in the background just
out of my sight. The number I had given him was Nurse Tooley’s and as I
heard her voice my heart rose.

‘It’s Peacocks Hall, Nurse,’ I began, speaking very quietly and hoping
that she would use her wits. ‘Could you come down at once and bring a
night bag? I think you had better have your calls put through to Nurse
Phillips. You may be out some time.’

‘Something serious? I’ll be there in a jiffy, Doctor.’

I blessed her calm acceptance of whatever was coming and trusted I
wasn’t dragging her into danger.

‘Is there anything I can bring?’

‘Well, yes’ I said. ‘Could you go round to the surgery and—Nurse?’

‘I’m listening, Doctor.’

‘Could you bring the—_equipment_ we used on young George Roper some
little time back? Do you remember?’

I heard her exclamation.

‘The day he . . . ? Oh dear, yes. You’ve got someone listening, I
suppose? Do you expect trouble, Doctor?’

‘I don’t know,’ I lied, ‘but it’s very urgent. If you’ll go to the
surgery and bring _everything_ I’ll get Mr Gastineau to send his car
down there for you.’

‘I’ll be there. Don’t worry.’

‘Bless you,’ I said, and hung up. Then I put my head round the angle of
the wall. ‘Will you send the car, please?’

Gastineau was standing a few feet away, his hands in his pockets and his
head bent. He glanced up sharply and there was a faint smile on his
mouth.

‘Do you really think it will do any good?’

It was that quiet man-to-man query, suggesting we were accomplices and
emphasizing the fact that we were alone, which gave me my first jolt
after making my decision to stay. I checked the retort which rose to my
mouth and, feeling like a criminal, shrugged my shoulders.

‘We must do everything we can.’

‘But of course, Doctor.’ He shot me an odd, half-admiring glance. ‘I
will call Radek. You shall give him the instructions yourself.’

There was nothing whatever I could do for the patient until Nurse
arrived with her grisly pumps and so I waited until I saw the man go and
then I fetched my bag from the car and went upstairs again. There was no
change and I expected none. Her heart was keeping up and I was certain
I’d been right in deciding that there was no question of sending her to
hospital. There were no pulmonary symptoms so far and I was not going to
risk any by moving her an inch. Everything that was to be done, and
there was plenty, would have to be performed right there in the room.

It had grown dark and I drew the curtains and turned up the lights, very
glad of them somehow in that ancient shadowy bed-chamber which must have
seen generations of births and deaths in its four hundred years.

There was something which had to be done before Nurse arrived and I set
about it. I went over the room like a police officer, searching it
minutely for anything I could find. As I had expected, any suitcases
which might have come with her had been removed. The drawers in the
tallboy were completely empty. There was nothing in the wardrobe or on
the chintz-skirted dressing-table, not even a powder puff, a comb or a
hairpin; nothing at all.

I investigated the bathroom and found that it literally was a cupboard,
one of those enormous presses which are often built into the alcove of a
fireplace in very old houses. It had been tiled in green and fitted up
very cleverly with a tiny window high up over the bath. There seemed
scarcely room for anything to be hidden there, and yet I found
something. Down on the floor, in the angle between the bath and the
pedestal of the washbasin, was one of those flat plastic envelopes. It
had not been noticed because it was the same colour as the tiles, and it
was standing on its side flat against the wall and half-hidden by a
pastel-shaded towel. I pounced on it and pulled back the zipper. Inside
there was a soggy mess of face towels, soap, and odds and ends.

The first thing I pulled out was a nail brush, rather an elaborate
affair, but sticky, of course, as everything else was. I turned it over
with two fingers and stood looking at it. There was a monogram on the
back, stamped into the ivory and picked out in green: F.F. Francia
Forde.

So I was not dreaming and the thing was true. There was something about
that utterly personal label which drove the facts home to me as nothing
else would have done. Whatever the explanation of the whole crazy
business might be, it truly was she and somehow or other I had got to
save her life.

It was at that point that I heard someone try the door, and immediately
afterwards a somewhat startled knocking. I thrust the brush back into
the bag and dropped it where I had found it. If I had had the sense to
go on examining it I might have been in a rather different frame of mind
but as it was I hurried out and opened the door to find a startled Nurse
Tooley, with Radek, bundled up with gear, behind her.

I had seen Nurse Tooley arriving on a scene of trouble at least a dozen
times in so many weeks, but as usual she gave me the same thrill of pure
thankfulness. She kept Radek quiet and got the bags into the room
without letting him enter. Her movements were light and neat and yet as
powerful as a tractor. As she bent I saw her solidness and the width and
power of her haunches under the stiff and pristine belt.

The moment the man had gone she closed the door very quietly and, with
an eye on me, twisted the key softly in the lock. Then she pulled off
her cloak, jerked the strings of her bonnet, and shot a long, searching
glance at the bed.

‘Now, what have you got here?’ she demanded.

I let her look and saw the deep frown appearing on her forehead. When
she looked back at me I noticed with a pang that she was scared.

‘What has she taken, by all the saints?’

‘Some form of barbituric,’ I said briefly, and it was the first time I
had ever been evasive with Nurse Tooley.

‘Indeed now.’ She was startled and disapproving. ‘I had in me mind
something more homely, like the boy Roper you were mentioning.’

She was referring to a hectic afternoon we had spent together dealing
with Mrs Roper’s youngest, who had eaten deadly nightshade berries and
had worried us both stiff before we had got him through.

‘I wish it were,’ I said involuntarily. ‘But the initial treatment’s the
same.’

‘Ah, it would be,’ she agreed with that heartening acquiescence I knew
so well.

We got to work immediately. Nurse had obeyed me literally and had
‘brought everything’. We did not have to appeal to anyone in the house.
We had a fire and we had hot water; the rest she had brought with her.

I suppose it was nearly two hours before we said any word which was not
purely to do with the job in hand. Long before then, whatever poison was
left in the patient had been already absorbed. I completed the work and
watched anxiously for any sign of improvement.

Francia lay flat on her back, her eyes closed, her breath still
stertorous, and as I listened to her heart my own sickened. Despite the
stimulants I had given, it was not quite so strong.

There was only one thing to do and that was to wait for a while. Nurse
was clearing up at the far end of the room. I knew that at any moment
now I must make her some sort of explanation and as I hesitated I saw
out of the corner of my eye the Dormital bottle, standing where I had
left it on the corner of the chest nearest the bed.

There were one or two small ornaments on the glistening wood, a Spode
bowl and a little lustre jug amongst them. I picked up the bottle and
slid it into the jug for safety. It was practically a reflex action. I
had no intention of doing anything secretive, but as Nurse turned round
and caught me with my hand outstretched I coloured. There was nothing I
could do to stop it.

She did not show any sign of noticing. Her own face was as placid and
sensible as ever and she pulled a chair to the fire.

‘Rest yourself, Doctor,’ she suggested, her Irish voice soft and easy.
‘It’s terrible hard work you’ve been doing and there’s nothing more to
be done for her, poor soul, for a time at any rate.’

It was a straight invitation to talk, and I knew that with her I could
take it or leave it as I chose. I went over and sat down and she eyed me
with concern.

‘You _are_ tuckered up,’ she observed. ‘You’re as white as linen.
Wouldn’t you like to run back for a minute or so, if it’s only to have a
bite of supper? I can well sit here, and if you think it’s advisable to
have the door locked, well, I can lock it.’

There was no query in her tone. I could explain just as much or as
little as I liked and I knew then just why I had called her in and
nobody else. She was my insurance against any weakness which might lie
within me. I knew that with her beside me I’d just have to do what was
professional and correct, whatever the consequences. I respected her and
I trusted her as I didn’t seem to trust myself. She was a bridge I’d
burned behind me.

‘I don’t want the patient left alone,’ I said at last, ‘unless the door
is locked and the key is in your pocket or mine.’

This was a pretty startling statement and could only mean the obvious.
She took it with a nod.

‘Just as you say. There’ll be no one comes anywhere near the poor little
thing while I’m about.’ She paused and added the one thing which could
have shown me just how completely in the picture she was. ‘There’ll be
no windows left open by mistake to give her pneumonia while I’m around.’
And she leant forward to make up the fire, the red glow shining on the
white linen of her cap. ‘Well now, why don’t you treat yourself to half
an hour at home?’

I shook my head. John was at the cottage and frankly I did not dare to
think about him. His appearance had made the present situation so
appallingly dangerous that I felt that the only thing to do was to keep
him out of my mind and trust to God that he would not enter into anybody
else’s. I relied on Rhoda to explain where I was. His own intelligence
would tell him that something fairly serious was amiss, and I trusted
he’d do the sane thing and get quietly back to Grundesberg. Personal
matters were not thinkable at that moment, and the new warmth which
suffused me and was making me so reckless gave me a guilty feeling I
certainly wasn’t going to analyse.

Nurse Tooley folded her hands in her starched lap and raised her neat
head.

‘Would this be the young party that was brought down from London in the
ambulance there was all the talk about?’

I felt my heart miss a beat. ‘Talk?’

She smiled at me apologetically. ‘There’s one thing I don’t believe in
and that’s gossip,’ she murmured. ‘It’s an evil in this town, God knows.
But you know there was a bother about the whole business, don’t you?’

‘I knew the time was changed at the last moment,’ I said cautiously.

‘Ah, that put them out to begin with, no doubt, but they had trouble at
the house, you know. There was no one there but a woman no one took a
fancy to, and the patient was in a highly peculiar state.’

She cast her eyes down and let me think what I would.

‘There was no one who could do anything with her except this Mr
Gastineau, who had come with them, and there was a misunderstanding
about yourself not being there to meet them.’

In her attempt to let me down lightly she succeeded in painting a
scarifying picture, and I could just imagine how the tale would run
round Mapleford.

Her pretty voice continued softly.

‘But it’s all completely all right because everyone knew it was you,
Doctor, who was arranging the matter.’

I was trying to decide what would be the most sensible comment to make
when she forestalled me.

‘But early this morning when the stranger came round asking questions,
everyone was interested, naturally.’

I don’t think I could have moved had I dared. I had heard of people
feeling that their blood had turned to ice water and for the first time
I could believe it.

‘What stranger was this?’ I hoped my voice sounded more normal to her
than it did to me.

‘From what Mr Robins the Superintendent said, he was very pleasant but
kind of simple.’ She made the words sound kindly and I suddenly knew who
she meant although there was no reason why I should have guessed it.

‘Was he carrying an umbrella?’ The words were nearly out of my mouth but
I checked them. The man had succeeded in rattling me in London, but
never so much as now.

Nurse Tooley was laughing. ‘Mr Robins took pity on him and told him
where to get rooms, poor soul. He seemed to have just stepped off the
train without making any arrangements. What people will do!’

I got up. That final exclamation of hers had gone straight home. What
people will do! I knew what _I had_ to do. The decision had arrived
ready-made in my mind some few minutes before. The time had come.

I gave Nurse the necessary instructions with regard to the patient and
told her to call me the moment she thought she noticed any change, and
then I let myself out into the dark upper hall and went downstairs. The
old house was very quiet and oddly serene. Its very naturalness made the
horror around me seem worse and more peculiarly my own. It was as though
I had brought it there. I knew my way about, of course, and, making as
little noise as possible, I walked into the sitting-room and across it
before Gastineau was aware.

He was sitting in his chair by the fire and the room looked just as it
always did, very comfortable and civilized. The desk was just as untidy
as when I’d seen it last and the little drawer which Gastineau had
closed so quickly was still shut. It looked as though nothing had been
touched.

I walked straight over to it, ignoring him, and pulled it open. There
were all kinds of rubbish there, string, paper clips, a roll of tape,
but no blue pamphlet.

The man behind me did not move. His eyes had been on me ever since I
entered but he had not stirred. His stiff legs were turned to the blaze
and his hands remained in his lap. As I shut the drawer he smiled at me.

‘You did notice? I wondered, but I wasn’t sure. It was a bad moment for
me. I thought I would be on the safe side.’ He nodded at the fire
pointedly.

I pulled up a chair opposite him and sat down, and as I did so I caught
a glimpse of myself in a long narrow mirror on the farther wall. It
startled me. I looked much younger, much more feminine and less
impressive than I had thought. I wondered if he really did see me as
just a pretty girl. If so, it was an image that had got to be dispelled.

‘Look here,’ I announced as unequivocally as I knew how, ‘I want an
explanation.’

His eyes met mine and I was aware of a sort of quietude, a contentment
which I had not seen there before.

‘But of course you do,’ he agreed. ‘How understandable that is. But you
know I don’t think it is wise.’

It was the last attitude I had expected him to take. I had to struggle
to keep the initiative.

‘That’s for me to decide.’

‘Perhaps so.’ He offered me a cigarette box from the telephone table at
his elbow, and when I refused, took one himself.

‘What do you want to know?’ He was pleasant and conversational. We might
have been talking of anything in the world.

‘When did Madame—Miss Forde go to Barton Square?’

‘A little over a week ago.’

‘Why did she go there?’ If he preferred to do it this way I did not
mind. I was not moving unless Nurse called me.

‘I took her there,’ he said at last. ‘We had been dining together.’

‘And left her there?’

‘Yes.’ He laughed at my expression and I had to take a grip on myself. I
had known patients who had played the fool like this when they were
monkeying with the truth.

‘Explain’, I snapped.

He hesitated for a long time and finally shrugged.

‘You are a good doctor, I think. You probably saw for yourself that she
had recently taken—what shall we call it, a little sedative.’

‘In fact you drugged her.’

He spread out his hands. ‘Well, that is a theatrical way of putting it.
I gave her an opiate. It is a prescription I have had for many years and
have used myself when I had much pain. When she became sleepy I took her
to Barton Square, where I had a very good friend who looked after her
. . .’

‘And kept her prisoner?’ I demanded, aghast.

‘Not at all. She was persuaded to stay.’ He spoke easily and rationally,
and it occurred to me that he had had experience of being questioned.
There was something skilled in his little retreats and omissions. ‘She
waited until I could make arrangements and come to fetch her.’

‘Do her friends know where she is now?’

For the first time I saw him waver. ‘Perhaps not,’ he said at last. ‘You
see, Doctor, there is a little secret about Francia. It is the thing
which tempted me to—well, to persuade her to come here in the way I did
persuade her. Just before her last film was made she had some sort of
_crise de nerfs_ and it was discovered, with dismay, that she had taken
refuge in alcohol. It was all kept very dark, you understand. An eminent
specialist prescribed. She went into a nursing home and she was cured.
Splendid. The incident was forgotten. The new film was made. Everyone
was delighted. And then this magnificent offer from Moonlight came
along, and she was photographed from morning to night, very
successfully, I believe.’

He paused, and I saw something so cold and so terrible in his face that
I had to master an actual fear of him.

‘I have kept a very careful eye on her for some time and I was one of
the few who knew about that breakdown,’ he went on at last, adding
calmly, ‘It occurred to me that such a thing could so easily happen
again. . . .’

‘That’s abominable!’ I exploded, and he watched me placidly.

‘Do you think so? It was not very difficult to arrange at Barton Square,
I assure you. She was angry and alarmed and the alcohol was there. I did
it because it was so convenient. You see, I felt certain that when she
vanished those nearest to her would jump at once to a certain conclusion
and would probably keep quiet. On the other hand, if they did not, and
by some bad luck she was found before I was ready, well, it would appear
to be just as they had feared.’

The sheer wickedness of it appalled me. I leaned forward.

‘And you brought her here in an ambulance because you knew no one would
query it, getting a doctor to order it for you to make yourself doubly
safe?’

‘No.’ For the first time he came back at me and his dull eyes became
bright and alive. ‘You are forgetting. I got not _a_ but _the_ doctor to
order it for me, and to go to Barton Square where she was noticed. I
should not be surprised if you called considerable attention to yourself
when you saw no ambulance there. Did you ask a policeman?’

I didn’t answer that. ‘A doctor or the doctor, it makes no difference.’

‘But it does.’ The gentle voice was soothing, and it filled me with
sheer terror. ‘Of course it does. Come, you are a realist, you are not a
fool. We have discussed this already. You know where you stand.’

He was getting the upper hand. It was becoming his interview. I
sidetracked to get it back again.

‘Who was the deaf woman I saw at Barton Square?’

‘The Ukrainian servant of my friend. She would have been alone in the
house when you arrived.’

‘And who was the man with the umbrella?’

Gastineau was puzzled by that. I could see it in his face.

‘Where did you find him? In the kitchen?’

‘Yes. What’s more, I think he’s followed us down here. He’s been asking
questions at the ambulance station.’

This information did not alarm him in the least. He swept the news away
with a flicker of a finger.

‘It may be someone who is employed by my friend in Barton Square. Women
are inquisitive and sometimes jealous. There is nothing in that.’

To my horror I discovered that I was finding him reassuring.

‘What was your reason?’ I demanded suddenly. It was the shock of
mistrusting myself which made the question come out so brashly. All the
time I had been wondering about it, but to ask it outright meant that I
accepted—well, the thing I wasn’t accepting.

He understood me at once. It was still the most frightening thing about
him that we did understand each other so well, as I had noticed long
before. He looked down at his knees, the wooden stiffness of his legs,
and peered up at me from under his lids without moving his bent back.

‘I was a tall man at one time,’ he remarked unexpectedly and with a
detachment which I found unnerving. ‘I walked a great deal. Mountain
climbing was my hobby. I was also very sensitive to my surroundings.
Sordidness, ugliness, anything dirty or cruel disgusted me physically.’
He stopped, his flat eyes still watching me. ‘If you want to know you
must listen to this. It won’t take very long.’

‘Go on,’ I said.

‘There was a time in my life,’ he continued quietly, ‘when I was in
business in Stockholm. It was just before the war. During that time I
was able to do certain little services for my own country. I shall not
explain them, but you must understand that they were secret. And, since
I was able to enter into the high circles in Germany and Austria, of
some little use. Do you understand?’

‘You were a spy,’ I suggested bluntly.

‘No. If that were true I should be dead by now. No, I was in effect a
confidential messenger, no more.’

‘I see.’

He nodded and continued. ‘I was in love with a woman who was very much
younger than I. She had come to the country with a dancing troupe which
had been stranded, leaving her with a British passport and not much
else. When I first saw her it was in the summer and she was trying to
persuade a business friend of mine to give her a job dancing and singing
in his restaurant. She had no voice and her shabby little clothes hung
on her like paper streamers on one of those wands you buy on a
fairground.’

There was no actual change in his tone, which was still quietly
conversational, but there was a force there which I recognized. It was
an emotional thing. I knew it only too well.

‘I was not very rich,’ he said slowly, ‘but I was not poor, and there
was something indefinable about her which attracted me. I got her her
job and I saw that she had something to wear. She accepted anything I
offered eagerly, her passion to get on somehow at all costs amused me. I
saw a great deal of her after that and gradually a terrible thing
happened to me and I fell in love with her.’

He was still watching me. ‘Not everybody loves,’ he observed at last.
‘With some people it is a ghost of a thing, a flare in the night which
is bright and transfiguring and then . . . gone. But with others, and I
think you know all about this, it is a most dreadful power, frightening
and devouring and inescapable.’

I tried to shut him out of my sympathies.

‘I just want the facts,’ I murmured as if he were describing a set of
symptoms.

‘But that is _the_ fact,’ he protested. ‘You know that as well as I do.
I loved this girl in that particular way, and because she was the kind
of woman she is I was soon near ruin and I had to tell her so. I do not
think I have ever horrified anyone more, even you, dear Doctor.’ He
laughed a little, but not with amusement. ‘Fortunately, I still had the
little money on which I now live tied up in England, but by then the war
had begun. The time came when I had to make one of my regular journeys
to Berlin. Because I was in love with her I trusted her with a secret
connected with my trip. It was only a little thing, mercifully—I
carried no papers. It was no more than that I had to go to a certain man
and tell him that the answer was yes. In my complete infatuation,
perhaps because I was insane enough to imagine it might make her think
more of me, I let her know I was not going solely on business.’

I knew what was coming. It was clear in his dark ugly face. There was
nothing to guess, even.

‘Yes,’ he agreed, as if I had spoken, ‘she sold the information. I was
of no further use to her so she took the last there was to be got out of
me. She whispered the news at a party where she was dancing, wearing a
dress I had chosen for her and jewels I had given her. The man she told
paid her in cash. And as for me, when I reached the little house in the
German capital, I was arrested. The rest I will not speak about!’

The last words came out with passion and brought me half to my feet. I
hardly recognized him in the blazing, bitter wreck before me. He thrust
out his hands, which were already malformed, and his gesture embraced
the rest of his warped and tortured body.

‘You _know_,’ he said. ‘There is no more for me to tell you about that.
You are a doctor. You can comprehend something of that imprisonment.’

I said the one thing that I could say to that. ‘Are you sure?’

‘Sure it was she? Sure it was done for money and to get rid of me? Yes.’
It was final, a very softly spoken word.

I have said somewhere that I myself am frightened of hatred and that I
have always fled from it lest it should consume me. As I looked at him I
knew what had happened to him as surely as if he had shown me a
gangrenous joint. He _was_ the ash of hatred. It had got him and
poisoned him and made him mad.

He went on talking quietly again now and almost pleasantly.

‘I could not face discomfort and hideousness again. I could not risk any
kind of imprisonment, anything ugly or terrible. I had to find a way to
punish her that for me was quite safe. I had to have help. So when that
other woman in Barton Square, who has always watched my affairs so
carefully, showed me a cutting from a magazine which she had saved, and
I found out that there was another person who had cause to hate Francia
as much as I did . . .’

‘No.’ The word was jerked out of me and it sounded frightened. He went
on as if I had not spoken.

‘When I discovered that not only did such a person exist, but that she
was a doctor, someone in the ideal position to make what I had to do
perfectly simple and perfectly safe, then I felt that there was justice
in the world, and I—came here to Mapleford to find you.’

‘Yes,’ I said cautiously, feeling my way as one does when the disease is
new to one and shocking. ‘But when you saw me didn’t you realize that it
wouldn’t work?’

‘When I saw you,’ he said contently, ‘I recognized you, or rather I
recognized something in you. You were drowning yourself in work, hiding
in it, but you were not quite escaping, were you? I saw that if I put
the idea to you you would do your best to have me certified insane, but
I guessed that if the _fait accompli_ were presented to you suddenly I
should get my way and you would help me.’ He threw the butt of his
cigarette into the fire. ‘And I was right,’ he said.

‘No.’ I spoke as quietly as he had done. He had ceased to terrify me. I
had begun to see him as a pathetic pathological case with which in other
circumstances I could even have sympathized. ‘You’re making a mistake.’

‘I don’t think so. You have imagination. You know what will happen to
you if you do not do your part. There are too many coincidences for you
to explain in any police inquiry. Besides, this is the woman who stole
your man. Since then you have not even considered anyone else. Your
neighbours have noticed it. “The little doctor has taken a knock. She
hasn’t forgotten it.” Isn’t that what they say?’

I ignored the last part of that and tried to reason with him. He was
sane enough in every particular save one.

‘Don’t you see,’ I said gently, ‘all this happened some years ago? If I
was upset then, I did nothing about it. Why should anyone believe that I
should seek out Francia Forde now?’

I saw the doubt creeping over him. His own hatred had been kept alive so
long by his sufferings. He had identified mine with it.

‘But you stayed tonight.’

‘I hope to save her.’

‘You won’t.’ It was as though he knew something I didn’t. For a second
he had me off balance. ‘You knew it tonight,’ he said. ‘That was why you
sent for the nurse you felt you could trust. I could tell from the way
you spoke to her you were certain she would never give you away. Perhaps
she is too stupid or perhaps she is too dependent on you. It is one or
the other.’

‘You’re wrong.’ Now it was my words which were really convincing. There
was triumph in them; I couldn’t keep it out. ‘I chose Nurse Tooley
because I trust her more than I do myself. She’s my sheet anchor.’ That
was the first time I frightened him. He understood exactly what I meant,
as I had known he would.

‘You wouldn’t have dared.’ He was appealing, he was hoping not accusing,
and he went on talking still with the trace of uncertainty. ‘It was the
only thing which made me wait so long. You give this profession of yours
the passion you ought to give a lover. It is a religion with you. Yet
you’ll ruin your career if you don’t go through with this.’

‘Should the patient die I shall have to risk that.’ I believed it, and I
said it, and it sounded true.

He lay back in the chair and stared at me. There was astonishment there,
that and chagrin.

I don’t know what would have happened then. There’s a chance he would
have cracked, or he might have gone for me, I don’t know. . . . At that
precise instant something happened which defeated me. It was the
unkindest trick pure chance ever played. The telephone bell began to
ring.

Gastineau was between me and the instrument and he took up the receiver.

‘Yes. Yes, I will tell her, she is here. Who shall I say is calling?’

I was watching him and I saw the change in his face. The blood raced
into its greyness and his eyes grew bright. He turned to me with a smile
of victory.

‘It is for you. Dr John Linnett.’

It was nearly half a minute before I took the receiver. My first impulse
had been not to take it at all. When I did, my hand shook and I held my
elbow to keep it still.

John’s voice came through strong and natural and faintly apologetic.

‘Ann, this is to warn you. I’m running down to say good night.’

I moved back as far as I could from the man in the chair. The cord was
very short.

‘Oh no,’ I said firmly, ‘no, I shouldn’t do that.’

‘Why not?’ I knew that tone of John’s. I had heard it a thousand times,
from nursery days on. It meant he was going to have his own way. ‘I
shan’t keep you a minute,’ he said. ‘I’ll be at the front door in
something under a quarter of an hour. I shall ring the bell like a
proper little practitioner and ask for you, and you’re to come out. Do
you hear? Got that? Just say “yes”, and tell whoever’s listening it’s
the Ministry of Health.’

‘No,’ I said again, but he rang off.

I looked up at last to find Gastineau considering me speculatively. I
said nothing. There was nothing I could say, and presently I turned and
went out of the room. As I reached the doorway he spoke.

‘At any rate we know each other a little better, Doctor.’

I left him sitting there and went up the stairs again and across the
deserted upper hall. From the grandfather clock in the corner I saw that
I had not been away more than twenty minutes. I could have believed it
twenty years.

Nurse Tooley had got the door locked and she arrived in something of a
flutter in answer to my tap.

‘Oh, it’s you, praise be,’ she murmured. ‘I was wondering if I’d call
you.’

I looked at the bed eagerly but she shook her head. ‘No change at all,
poor soul, no change at all. The heart’s keeping up though.’

‘Thank God,’ I said fervently. There was not a lot more I could do.
While her heart remained strong and there was no sign of lung trouble it
was best to let the body do what it could for itself.

Nurse Tooley kept her bright eyes on my face. She was more flushed than
usual and there was a hint of defiance in her which was new to me.

‘Will you look here, Doctor?’ She pointed to something on the
dressing-table and we went over towards it together. It was the green
plastic envelope which I had found in the bathroom and had not had time
to examine properly. Nurse had been more thorough. The entire contents
was laid out neatly on a folded towel, ready for me to see.

‘It’s the only thing in the world the poor thing has with her,’ she
confided to me in a whisper, ‘or so you’d imagine from the nakedness of
this room.’

I glanced at the exhibits and looked again. The usual paraphernalia was
all there, but there was something else, something new which I had not
found in my interrupted search. It was a little heap of small white
pills and the sodden screw of paper which had once contained them. There
were twenty-two of them, battered and sticky but still recognizable. I
could make out a roman numeral stamped on the surface of the one I
picked up.

I could guess what it was before I touched it with my tongue and tasted
the bitterness.

‘What is it, Doctor? Luminal?’

‘I don’t know.’ I spoke woodenly because my heart had sunk with a thud.
This explained the mystery of the deep and prolonged coma, which had
been puzzling me. It also explained Gastineau’s belief that Francia
would die. ‘It’s one of them.’

‘It’s one of them.’ Nurses’s conviction echoed my own. ‘Medinal, Dial
. . . something. You see, she’s been in the habit . . .’

I cut her short. She had gone straight to the point, as usual. That was
what this discovery meant. Francia Forde was in the habit of taking
barbituric acid in some form, and one of its peculiarities is that it is
cumulative. It remains in the system a considerable time. Therefore the
sudden dose of Dormital must have merely added to the sum already in her
body. There was no knowing what the total might be.

That it was a habit was clear. The patient who is given a few grains by
his doctor to take in case of insomnia hardly keeps them loose in a
sponge-bag. This contempt indicated a very considerable familiarity. I
supposed she had been given them after her ‘breakdown’.

While I was digesting this appalling consideration, Nurse Tooley made a
remark which took some seconds to register on me.

‘Well, at any rate we know what it is. That’s a tremendous comfort if
anything should happen to the poor thing.’

It was the way she said it which startled me. There was a note in her
voice which I had never heard there before. It matched the hint of
defiance I had noticed in her manner. At last I recognized it. She was
guilty about something.

My eyes strayed across the room, past the vast bed with its tragic
little burden, and over to the chest. The lustre jug had been moved
several inches nearer to the wall. I turned to Nurse and looked at her.
She became very red and the involuntary thought shot through my mind
that any prosecuting lawyer would have the time of his life with her if
ever he got her on the stand. She was not designed for subterfuge.

When I went to the chest and looked the jug was empty.

‘Nurse.’

Her back was to me. She was poking the fire and making a blaze. The
flame and her face were just about the same colour. She took a minute to
make up her mind and then straightened her back, the iron poker still in
her hand, so that she looked like something allegorical in a village
pageant.

‘I soaked off the label and put it in the fire, and I smashed up the
bottle on the hearth and put the pieces down the drain. So now you
know.’

I couldn’t believe it. The statement took all the breath out of my body.
I must have goggled at her. She came a step or two forward, still
grasping the poker.

‘Now look, Doctor dear’—her accent had become as broad as a beam—‘I’m
an old woman by the side of yourself and I’m imploring you. There’s
never one word will be passed between the two of us or any other living
soul on the subject again. There’s no one knows better than I do what
people will do. They’ll pick up something out of your bag and leave it
lying around for the first poor crazy thing that comes to the house to
pick up.’

She was so earnest that her kind eyes were full of tears and she
trembled till her apron crackled.

‘I know. I’ve seen even more than you have. But you’re a fine doctor,
conscientious, and as brave as a lion, and I’m not going to see you held
up while the Coroner makes damaging remarks on carelessness and suchlike
rubbish. As soon as I saw those little pellets in her sponge-bag I said
to myself, “Here’s something that will do, sent by the Lord”.’

Had I heard it at any moment but that one I could have laughed. As it
was, I nearly wept. This was the first thing that she or I had done in
the whole business which was actually wrong. We might have been silly
but we hadn’t been criminal. Without this I could have told my story and
stuck to it and held my head up and prayed that the truth would save me.
But this complicated the issue. This destroying the bottle proved that
at any rate we weren’t half-witted and that we knew what was happening.

‘Holy Mother, have I made a fool of meself?’

‘No,’ I said hastily, trying to forget that I’d been relying on her for
moral support, ‘No, it’ll be all right . . .’ and got no further because
a tap on the door interrupted me. Nurse went over and came back with a
note.

‘The foreign manservant’s waiting outside for an answer,’ she murmured.

The letter was from Miss Luffkin and it was typical.

     My dear Doctor,

    Very worried indeed to gather someone so ill. What can I do? Do
    not hesitate to ask anything. Would milk pudding _help_? Have
    some _real rice_, sent in parcel nephew America. Have telephoned
    Dr Ludlow, since did not care to interrupt your work. He says
    not to worry as you are very capable. Know that, of course, but
    feel you are so slight and young. Forgive me, I see you have
    that good nurse with you so suppose you can manage, but perhaps
    Dr Ludlow will run down. _Always remember I am here._

                                     Ever yours sincerely,
                                      Gertrude Elizabeth Luffkin

    P.S. Have spoken on phone to Miss Farquharson, Mrs Dorroway, and
    Betty Phelps in the village. They all say you must let them know
    if there is anything they can do to _help_. Shall run down with
    this myself.

It was the final line which I found most alarming, and I went to the
door to speak to Radek. He seemed to share my anxiety, for he pointed to
the floor below and put a thick finger over his lips. I took his tip and
pencilled, ‘Nothing now, but thank you. Please don’t worry, but get some
sleep. A.F.’ on the back of the envelope, and sent him down with it. I
felt safer when the door was locked again.

I went back to the bed. Percy might turn up if she had been worrying
him. It would hasten matters if he did. I had made up my mind to be
quite frank with him and to take what was coming.

I went over the patient again. The breathing had not changed, the pulse
was faint, and the temperature had risen half a degree. She was bathed
in perspiration. The lungs were still all right.

‘What a pretty woman,’ said Nurse, her homely face full of pity. ‘She’s
put me in mind of someone I’ve seen somewhere. Maybe one of the Holy
Angels in the pictures. It would be that fair hair, no doubt. Do you
know who she is at all?’

‘Yes,’ I said. ‘Her name is Forde.’

It meant nothing to Nurse but it carried full weight with me. Until then
I had striven to achieve the impersonal attitude which a doctor must
preserve if he is to do any good and yet not tear himself to a rag. The
chance remark had broken it down, and from that moment on her identity
was as vivid to me as if I had been confronted with her alive and well.
I could see her walking on those long slender legs, turning that
perfectly shaped yellow head and smiling, perhaps.

I checked myself. This was not the time to bear even the recollection of
jealousy. The new information made things just as bad as they could be.
I began to see just exactly what was most likely to happen. The
probability was that in the next twenty-four hours the coma would become
even deeper and the heart, despite my stimulants, would slowly, slowly
fail. Then, in the dawn perhaps, defeating all our efforts, while Nurse
and I looked at her, both of us impotent and exhausted, it would flutter
and be still. We should try artificial respiration. We should try
everything. We should wear ourselves to shreds. But it would be as
hopeless as I ought to have known it would be, and I should do what I
had to do and tell the police.

I had no illusions. I could see the rags of my career fluttering down
over me like dead leaves. If that was all I should be lucky. If
Gastineau stuck to the story he was clearly intending to tell I should
find myself on a criminal charge, _for this was Francia_. I hated her. I
still hated her, God forgive me. Somehow or other I had got to save her
life and have her still tied to John. Otherwise very probably I should
find myself arrested for murder.

I was not going to be able to save her. That conviction crept into my
consciousness like a very small thin knife entering a vital part. There
is no other way of describing it. It gave me that physical sense of
extreme danger and despair which is like nothing else.

‘Look out!’ It was Nurse. She came round the bend and caught my arm.
‘You’ve overdone it, Doctor me dear. I don’t want you on my hands as
well. Put your head down. Wait, I’ll get a chair and have you round in a
jiffy.’

I drew away from her and attempted a laugh. ‘I’m all right,’ I said,
‘honestly. Look. Perfectly steady now. It was a little hot in here.’

‘I believe you’re right.’ Her relief was tremendous. ‘You gave me quite
a turn for a moment. Upon me soul, every shred of colour went out of
your face. You looked like a corpse. I’ll get meself down to the kitchen
and see if anyone in this benighted house can make a Christian cup of
coffee.’

It seemed a most sensible suggestion and I returned to the bed as she
went out. But she was back in a moment, very startled and put out.

‘It’s himself, the foreigner, standing on the landing. He wants a word
with you in private,’ she whispered. ‘He said he’d not got as far as
knocking and I think it’s true.’

‘I’ll go,’ I murmured. ‘Stay with the patient.’

Gastineau was waiting for me, and it was evident that something had
happened. He was angry and his stiff hands were trembling.

‘What have you done?’ he demanded. ‘The police have been on the
telephone.’

‘The police?’ I had not known I could start so guiltily. ‘What about?’

‘That is what I want to know. I told them you were busy with your
patient, who was very ill, and they asked would you ring back.’

I glanced at the clock. It was nearly ten, late for ordinary business
calls from the police or anyone else. Gastineau was eyeing me
suspiciously.

‘Have you no idea at all?’

‘None.’

‘Have you communicated with them in any way?’

‘No.’

His catechism had the merciful effect of annoying me and restoring my
wits.

‘I can’t imagine what they want,’ I said briskly. ‘We’d better go and
see. You can listen to the conversation if you want to.’

He gave me the half-admiring glance I had seen from him once or twice
before and came awkwardly down the steps behind me. His experiences had
crocked him very badly, I reflected. He must have been continually in
pain.

I made for the telephone and had almost reached it when Radek came
hurrying past me from the kitchen to answer the front doorbell. As he
swung the wood open I looked up and all thought of the phone or the
police went out of my head in a wave of dismay. John was standing on the
step, his coat collar turned up and his shoulders dark with rain. He saw
me at once and did not smile.

‘Oh, there you are, Dr Fowler,’ he began with becoming formality. ‘Can I
speak to you for a moment, please? I have a message for you. It’s rather
urgent. Will you come out to the car?’

I was prepared for Gastineau to protest and braced myself to avoid an
introduction at all costs, but when he made no movement forward but
limped back to the living-room I knew that the thing I dreaded most of
all had happened. He had recognized either John’s voice from the
telephone, or his face from a photograph, and so from henceforth John
was implicated however much I tried to save him.

Meanwhile, John had stepped into the house and put the rug he had
brought round my shoulders. He said nothing but bundled me off and I was
outside and into the car before I could protest. He shut me in and went
round to the driving seat, opened the door, and glanced not at me but at
the dark well behind me.

‘Well, this is the place,’ he said cheerfully to someone in the
blackness. ‘If you want Peacocks Hall this is it.’

I dragged away the shrouding rug which had all but blinded me just in
time to see a tall, apologetic figure climbing out.

‘How stupid of me. Thank you very much, sir, thank you. Dear me, I had
no idea we had arrived.’

I recognized that misleading helpless voice on the first syllable.

‘Very good of you,’ it was saying. ‘I shall go round to the back door, I
think. Thank you so much. Good-bye.’

He looked back, saw me, and raised his hat politely in recognition
before he disappeared in the downpour, still clutching his unopened
umbrella.

I think that was the final shock which broke me. I heard myself
babbling, apparently from a long way off.

‘Oh why did you bring him here? Why? Who is he? _Who_ is he?’

‘Here . . . hey, old lady, what’s up?’

A very strong damp arm took a grip round my shoulders. ‘What’s the
matter?’

‘Where did you find him?’ I was gibbering, powerless to control myself.

‘That old boy? On the road, just outside your cottage. He hailed me and
asked me if I knew of a place called Peacocks. I told him to get in and
I’d take him there. I shoved him in the back because he was so wet and I
wanted to keep this pew dry for you.’

This reasonable explanation all but paralysed me.

‘But that’s the man who was at Barton Square,’ I chattered. ‘That’s the
man who followed . . .’

‘Stop it.’ The flat of his hand caught me sharply across the wrist and
the stinging pain brought me to myself. I heard my sob of relief as I
regained balance. The time-honoured cure of hysteria had saved another
patient.

John’s grip round me tightened and he pulled me to face him in the faint
glimmer from the dashlight. The familiar bone of his face and the tones
of his voice were sources of actual physical strength to me. I felt,
absurdly, that I was home again.

‘Listen, Annie.’ It was the name he gave me to tease me when I was in
disgrace with him in the schoolroom. ‘I’ve had a chat with Rhoda and I
know who your patient is. Tell me, _what is she up to_?’

‘It’s not that.’ I had got myself in hand again. ‘You must go at once,
John. Get back to Grundesberg and don’t tell a soul where you’ve been.’

‘Damn good idea,’ he agreed. ‘We’ll both go.’

‘No. This is serious, John. She’s going to die.’

‘Francia?’ He whistled softly. ‘Oh, I see what you mean.’ There was no
deep concern there. To my disgust I found I’d listened for it. ‘What’s
the trouble?’

‘An overdose of barbituric acid, various forms.’

I felt him go stiff at my side.

‘Hell!’

‘Exactly.’ I spoke very softly and urgently. ‘That’s why you’ve got to
vanish. It’s for my sake quite as much as your own. You do see, don’t
you?’

‘Coroner’s inquest and stink generally. And me calling on you? Oh, Lord,
what have I let you in for? Yes, you’re right Ann. The only thing I can
do is to beat it.’

I think it was my very silence which gave me away. I was so anxious for
him to escape it all I could hardly breathe. He guessed. He knew me too
well. His grip grew tighter.

‘Ann, speak up. Why did she take the stuff?’

I didn’t lie to him. I couldn’t. Besides, he’d have to know sooner or
later. I moistened my lips.

‘She didn’t take it. She had it given her.’

The words sank into the silence and their tiny echo hung in the darkness
for a long time. John moved. It was typical of him, as I remembered,
that in the face of real trouble he should become quiet and gently
matter-of-fact. He removed his arm from my shoulder and laid his hand
over mine.

‘Just give the facts,’ he said softly. ‘The whole thing. Start at the
beginning. Don’t try to go too fast.’

I gave up trying to resist. It was like telling myself. I went through
the whole thing, keeping my voice normal, even conversational. It was
just one doctor telling another about a case.

I hid nothing. I let every damning circumstance have its full value—the
Dormital, Nurse’s destruction of the bottle, the ordering of the
ambulance, the visit to Barton Square, and the man I’d seen there.

He listened to me in silence to the end. Then he bent down and kissed
the top of my head very lightly.

‘Added to which, you and I were discovered by old Dr Consequential lying
in each other’s arms this very afternoon.’ He made the statement with
finality and opened the door of the car.

‘What are you doing?’ I demanded.

‘Coming in.’ He leaned over the seat and hauled a battered leather bag
out of the back. ‘I’ve seen a couple or so of these cases. I’d better
stay.’

‘That,’ said I, coming out of a trance, ‘is pure madness. You can’t
attend your own wife, John. You’re jeopardizing everything.’

‘My dear girl,’ he objected, ‘everything is jeopardized, as you call it.
You and I might as well be in the dock this minute.’

‘I might,’ I agreed. ‘I’ve realized that for the last half-hour. But not
you. You can prove you’d not heard from me since 1945, until you got
Rhoda’s telegram yesterday.’

He made no reply to that but continued his manœuvres.

‘Come on,’ he said.

‘I won’t let you do this,’ I said. I was obstinate. ‘I refuse to allow
it. I won’t let you into this case and ruin yourself for my sake.’

He came round to open my door for me and bent to help me out. His face
was expressionless.

‘Then perhaps you’ll let me do it for hers,’ he said distinctly.

It was the same technique as the slap, but applied emotionally. Even
though I recognized it, it had its effect. It reminded me exactly where
I stood. A man had jilted me and made a fool of me, and four years later
he had walked into my house and held out his arms. Without the faintest
hesitation I had pitched myself neatly into them. It wouldn’t be
difficult for me to discover that I’d got exactly what I deserved for
that. It broke down my resistance very effectively.

‘I must phone the police as soon as I get in,’ I said. ‘I told you.’

‘Yes. Any idea what that’s about?’

‘No. Unless this man you brought here is anything to—to do with them.’

John considered. ‘I rather think not. Better get in and find out.’

We went quietly back to the house. There was no one in the hall and as
he slipped off his wet things I got on the phone. I was answered at once
by Sergeant Archer and he appeared to have been waiting for me. I
recognized that catarrhal voice and was reminded painfully of our last
encounter at the road accident, when I had been so abrupt with him.

‘’Ullo, Doctor, that you? Mapleford Division of the County Constabulary
’ere. It’s a little matter of a dangerous drug.’

‘Yes,’ I said faintly.

‘Dormital. I’ll spell it, if I may.’ The thick voice was heavily
official. ‘D, Ho, R, M, I, T, A, L. One two-ounce bottle containing
fifty five-grain tablets or cachets. Is that right?’

‘Tablets, not cachets.’

‘Tab-lets.’ He was writing, taking his time. ‘Thank you Doctor. Reported
lost at 3.00 P.M. on the 12th inst. Sorry to bother you when you’re
busy, but records are records and have to be kept. Now it ’as come to
our knowledge in a highly irregular way that there is every likeli’ood
of you ’aving found these ’ere tablets by this time—’

‘What?’ I felt my scalp prickling.

‘Pardon, Doctor.’ He was heavily polite. ‘Dr Ludlow was having a chat
with our Inspector Brush and it was said . . .’

I breathed a little more easily. I saw what had happened. Percy had told
Brush not to worry and Brush had told Archer not to worry, but Archer
had seen a chance of getting his own back on the pretence of getting his
records straight. I did not even hear the end of the sentence. What I
did hear was his next question. It came clearly across the line.

‘Have you in fact found these tablets, Doctor?’

Don’t lie. Whatever you do, don’t lie. Every instinct I possessed seemed
to be screaming at me. I could have screamed myself, I think, but
presently I heard my own voice, very crisp and formal.

‘Yes, I have. A few hours ago. Since then I have been very busy, as I am
at this moment. I will make my report in writing tomorrow morning.
Good-bye.’

I hung up and walked out into the hall. I felt as if the rope were
already round my neck.

John was waiting for me, his dark-red eyebrows raised. I gave him a
murmured explanation and he frowned.

‘Awkward. Still, the only thing you could have done in the
circumstances. Lord, what a mess! Why is your old boss so anxious to
keep quiet about the stuff?’

‘He has a horror of scandal.’ I was looking at his face and I saw his
wide mouth twitch and the flicker in his eyes. It was the most
characteristic grin in the world, expressing pure humour, sardonic and
his own. It brought the reality of his return home to me more vividly
than anything else had done.

‘Unlucky man,’ he murmured. ‘Now, where is your avenging lunatic?’

I pointed to the living-room door. ‘And the kitchen quarters are down at
the back.’ I said. ‘That man who came with you . . .’

He shook his head. ‘None of that is our affair. We’re doctors, not
policemen. Where’s the patient?’

He was right, of course. I felt rebuked for even thinking of anything
else and I led him up the staircase to the dark landing. Nurse admitted
us with suspicious promptness.

‘There you are, Doctor,’ she began with relief, but stopped abruptly as
she caught sight of John. He followed me into the room and she closed
the door behind us. I made a brief introduction, murmuring something
vague about a second opinion, and they shook hands, but her eyes turned
to mine with a question in them. She was far more jumpy than I was, and
she had not even begun to grasp the horror of the situation, poor
darling.

I smiled at her as reassuringly as I could and we both watched John, who
had walked over to the bed. It was a difficult moment for me. As must
have appeared already, my trouble is that I am human.

I followed him slowly, Nurse behind me, every starched yard of her
crackling. The bed was a pool of light in the shadowy room. Francia was
still completely comatose. Her mouth was open, her flesh dark and
terrible. Only her breathing had changed. It was shallower now and very
fast. John bent over her, his fingers on her pulse. His eyes were mere
slits and his face blank as a wall.

I knew that look. The mantle of impersonal professional interest had
dropped over him, shutting out every consideration save one. The woman
before him was nothing to him but a faulty machine whose troubles he
might be able to cure. I guessed that he had scarcely recognized her.
But at the same time I made a bitter discovery about myself. To me she
was no interesting machine. To me she was Francia Forde, and while John
was present so she would always be.

The routine went on. John scrubbed up and made his examination, with
Nurse assisting and growing more and more approving at every stage. I
approved myself with what was left of a balanced intelligence. I had
never seen him at work before and I understood then why his career had
been thought so promising. He had thoroughness and the authority of
knowledge, and never for one moment whilst he was at work did a single
extraneous thought appear to pass through his mind.

When at last it was over he straightened his back and his face was very
grave.

I prepared to make my report to him. Nurse brought the tablets she had
found in the sponge-bag, and I sent a flush of horror through her cheeks
by describing the Dormital in detail. We went into the time factor and
Nurse showed her charts. Finally we came to my treatment so far. John
kept his eyes on my face, putting in questions and nodding at my
answers, and all the time we might have been two other people.

As I finished I saw that he had become haggard. He looked older and even
thinner. As I looked at him my own courage began to ebb. The nightmare
which was the future settled down over me, more terrible now than it had
ever been, since he was in it. Until John had arrived I could have
forgiven the woman on the bed. Now, as I looked at her, I found I had
not even pity.

‘Very sensible and very thorough, Doctor.’ He gave me a brief smile as
he spoke and it occurred to me that even I was no longer a real person
to him either. I tried to achieve some of his detachment.

‘Is there anything else?’

‘I have used strychnine.’

There was a long silence. I knew that some authorities advocated large
doses at comparatively frequent intervals, but the danger was
tremendous.

‘I thought of it only as a last resort,’ I said at last.

He moved his head sharply towards the patient. His voice was very quiet.

‘I don’t think there’s all that time.’

Nurse stood behind him, digesting every word, and I saw her nod to
herself vigorously. So it was two to one, and I was overruled. Nurse’s
opinion carried weight with me. If she saw death, it was coming: I had
no illusions about that. She had more experience of it than either of
us, and there is something about it which does not belong to doctors or
books. Its ways are known only to those who have watched for it and seen
it steal in again and again through the years.

When John spoke of the size of the dose I felt the sweat break out on my
forehead. I had hesitated to give a sixteenth: he was mentioning a
sixth. I was on the other side of the bed watching Francia all the time
he was talking, and I thought I saw a faint deterioration, an almost
imperceptible change. I knew then there was nothing for it. We should
have to take the risk.

We made the decision, John and I, with Francia Forde lying senseless
between us, and the whole picture was very clear to me. Once we were
committed there was a lot to be done, and I found that it was a return
to our childhood, and that once again John, with his careful hands and
cautious eyes, was the leading spirit and I his faithful assistant.
Nurse found it extraordinary. She kept looking at us, her plump face
curious but impressed.

Once, when she and I happened to meet at the washbasin, she ventured to
remark on it.

‘A grand man. A grand man,’ she whispered. ‘You’ll have known him
before, no doubt?’

‘All my life,’ I murmured back, and let her make what she would of it.

At the last moment there was a hitch. The kettle of freshly boiling
water went over in the hearth and Nurse, in a flurry, hurried downstairs
for another. John and I were left waiting. It was a trying moment and
neither of us spoke. The room seemed to have grown larger and more bare,
and I could hear the tick of my wrist watch where it lay on the
mantelshelf.

Nurse was a long time and presently I began to walk up and down the rug,
aware that my hands were growing wet and that my eyes were sticky. John
did not move. He was quite steady. He was looking absently at the
expanse of chintz curtains over the windows, his eyes introspective and
the muscles of his jaw relaxed and easy. He was worried but not keyed up
in any way. I was ashamed of myself.

Nurse returned with a rustle, a steaming kettle in her hand.

‘This is a madhouse,’ she whispered. ‘The servants have gone to their
beds and there’s no one in the kitchen but a perfect stranger talking to
that dratted old cat of a Miss Luffkin of all people.’

I nearly dropped the glass tray I was holding and John, noticing the
involuntary movement, drew back the needle in his hand.

‘We’ll see to all that later. Steady, Ann, please.’

The quiet voice jerked me back to sanity and for the next three minutes
nobody spoke at all. In complete silence we tried the last resort, so
bold, so dangerous.

I saw the soft flesh of Francia’s upper arm pinched between John’s
fingers. The blue shaft slid deftly under her pale damp skin. Firmly the
plunger went home. He dabbed the puncture with the spirit-soaked wool,
laid her limp arm gently at her side, and drew the coverlet up to her
chin. Then he went to the shelf and glanced at the watch.

‘Twenty-five minutes before twelve,’ he said, looking at me. ‘Nothing to
do now but wait . . . and pray.’

I turned down the light by the bed and he went off to the bathroom to
wash. Nurse was standing beside me and I leaned towards her.

‘Did you say Miss Luffkin was downstairs?’

‘Did you ever!’ Her eyes were round with indignation. ‘Standing there
with a milk pudding, every hair of her twiddled into a questionmark.
That woman will be snooping in purgatory. The whole town will hear
everything, you know. What she saw, and what she didn’t. What she
thought and what she didn’t have time to think. I said to her, “You be
off to your bed or that bronchitis of yours will get you and the doctor
and I will be too busy to see to you.” She soon went. I put the pudding
on the side and shut the door after her.’

‘And the man?’

‘Oh, him? I don’t know what he was doing there at all. He wasn’t
answering her questions, I do remember that. Just stood, holding his
pipe politely, as far as I remember. I was busy, you see, getting the
kettle to boil.’

‘Did he ask you anything?’

It was evident that she had not taken him very seriously. She was so
used to running into unexplained people in the houses where she went to
nurse.

‘I don’t think so,’ she said at last. ‘I remember him saying, “I expect
you’re busy,” or something idiotic like that. He was only waiting, that
was all.’

‘Yes.’ My word was hardly as light as a breath. She was right of course.
He was only waiting, whoever he was, and I made myself look at the still
figure in the bed.

‘That woman you were talking about just now.’ John had come back without
my hearing him. ‘Is that the alarming old duck who rushes out with a
torch and stops cars?’

‘That’ll be her, sir.’ Nurse spoke with conviction. ‘She’s lonely.
That’s the best you can say for her. Did she have the cheek to stop
yourself?’

‘She did, but I couldn’t help her, I fear, and she retired discomfited.’

‘So much the better.’ Nurse radiated satisfaction. ‘She’s in the dark,
that’s what’s got under her skin. She’s often said to me, “I’m not
inquisitive, Nurse, but I’ve got to know.”’

A faint wry smile touched John’s mouth as he met my eyes.

‘The vultures gather,’ he said softly. ‘Nurse, if there’s another room
available I should like you to lie down for an hour or two. Dr Fowler
and I will watch the patient, but we ought not to need you until about 4
A.M.’

She dared not object. John had made a tremendous impression on her and
her instinct was unquestioning obedience. But I could see she didn’t
like it.

‘I’ll go down and see what room she can have,’ I said quickly, and went
out before anyone could demur.

The grandfather clock struck midnight as I crossed the landing, and I
thought how melodramatic it sounded. It had a very deep chime with an
asthmatic wheeze or death rattle between each stroke.

The lights were bright downstairs but the lobby struck chill as I
reached it. I crept out to the kitchen. I don’t know what I intended to
say to the man with the umbrella, if I was anticipating some sort of
showdown, or if I just wanted to be sure I had not gone out of my mind
and it was really he, but when I pushed open the kitchen door there was
no sign of him. Yet the lights were on and it was very warm and bright
in there under the heavy beams. The stove was open and a chair by the
table had been pushed back as if someone had just risen, but the room
was empty.

The back door was closed but not locked, and I went on out into a maze
of dark pantries and washhouses not wired for electricity. In the middle
of an outside passage I fell over a suitcase. It was perfectly ordinary,
leather and shabby and fastened with heavy straps. It was just standing
there, plump in the way.

I did not shift it, since it was hardly my affair, and I went back to
the kitchen. There a shock awaited me. The chair had been moved. I had
left it where I found it, some feet out in the room, but now it was back
in its place, its seat neatly under the table. Also, hanging in the warm
air, clear and unmistakable, was a blue wisp of tobacco smoke. Yet I had
not been more than a few feet out of the kitchen and I had been
listening, straining my ears, but I had not heard a sound.

I hurried into the hall and there everything was the same, bare and
bright and cold.

Gastineau’s voice startled me when I knocked at the living-room door,
even though I expected it. He was not in his usual place by the fire,
and I glanced round the room nervously. Presently I found him, sitting
in a high-backed wing chair which had been pulled up to the desk.

He was tidying a chaotic heap of papers which had covered it, and the
wastepaper basket at his side was nearly full. He had moved when I came
in and I saw the unspoken question in his eyes. Its eagerness shocked me
and I spoke stiffly.

‘Miss Forde’s condition is unchanged. I came to ask you if I could have
a room for Nurse. If she can get a little sleep now it will help.’

‘A long day tomorrow, eh? Take any one you like, Doctor. They’re all
empty.’ He spoke brightly. ‘The servants sleep at the back, where they
have their own staircase, and I shall not go to bed.’ He leant back in
the chair and pointed to the desk. ‘You see? I clean out my pigsty. It
is about time and it is as well to do something useful when one is
waiting.’

There was the same abominable frankness, the same suggestion that we
were allies. I was still recoiling from it when his next remark caught
me unaware.

‘Dr Ludlow telephoned but I begged him to excuse my calling you down as
you were busy. I took the liberty of telling him that you had brought in
Dr Linnett.’ He paused briefly and added, ‘He was relieved, and I
imagine he has gone to bed. So you see, we are all three here.’

I realized just a little too late that he had checked John’s identity
very neatly and that this was a gentle reminder that we were all three
in it together. Angry with myself and frightened, my only consolation
lay in the fact that I saw he was on edge himself. I guessed our
combined efficiency was a bit more than he had bargained for. I wished I
felt even that much confidence in it.

‘Nurse can have any room, you say? Thank you. Good night, Mr Gastineau.
When there is any further news I shall let you know.’

I got out on that and went up again, my knees feeling weak and
unreliable.

I found a room with a bed in it which wasn’t damp, and I called Nurse
out to it. She was very weary but loath to rest while I was still on my
feet, but she did as she was told. The sickroom was quiet and airy. John
was by the bed as I entered and I went over to him.

‘So far so good.’

His narrow eyes were bright in the light of the lamp.

‘The lungs are sticking it, that’s the mercy. Good vetting of yours,
Ann.’

‘No reaction yet?’

‘No. We’ll have to wait. Come and sit down.’

We sat by the fire in the chairs which Nurse and I had pulled up earlier
in the evening. John lay back, his dark red head resting against the
chintz. His chin was on his breast and I could see the profile that the
film people had gone so crazy about when they made the move which
smashed his life and mine. I imagine that we both had the same thought
just then. It amounted to a simple question: when, if ever, would he and
I be able to sit quietly before a fire and speak freely again? If
Francia died—and although I shrank from facing it the chance of her
recovery seemed very slender now—the answer was, irrevocably, never.
Neither of us would do the cheating, betraying our oaths, or laying
ourselves open to blackmail. The story was very simple to guess. There
would be a few weeks of agony, gossip and uncertainty, and then . . . .
what? Who was going to believe the literal truth from either of us?
Would I, if I were on the jury?

John turned and caught my eye. The warm light made his face crimson.

‘I fell for the movies,’ he said abruptly.

The intimacy was so very precious to me that I dreaded saying something
wrong. Far out of my childhood, a scene at a Christmas party crept into
my mind. I saw myself in white silk knickerbockers lashed to a
lamp-standard mast.

‘The boy stood on the burning deck,’ I murmured.

He chuckled. The tears of laughter welled up and stood in his eyes.

‘O God! you were funny.’

‘“Eh-eh, the lassie did her best.”’

‘Father said that, I remember. Oh, you were so angry! You kicked the
audience.’

I laughed. ‘I made a fool of myself, I know. I still remember that with
resentment.’

‘Do you?’ He was staring back at the fire. ‘You didn’t make such an ass
of yourself as I did, Ann, in Italy.’

I took all my courage in my hands.

‘It was a bad time just then, just after the war. Victory and nothing
else, not even peace.’ The words came out lazily, I might have been half
asleep.

‘That was just about it,’ he agreed wearily, his forehead wrinkling. ‘We
were just kicking our heels. I was sick of stinks and suffering and
useless sacrifices, and these film people were frightfully amusing. I
couldn’t follow half of what they said, but it all seemed very
complimentary. There was one little chap like a sallow Hotei. . . . do
you remember?’

I nodded. I could see the fat little Chinese god of plenty sitting on
Mrs Linnett’s bedroom mantelshelf. John was following my thought.

‘I couldn’t bear to come back to the empty house, Ann.’

‘No. Better not. Hotei was white, by the way.’

‘This little guy wasn’t. He was grey. I don’t know what he was or how he
got there, but he was the big noise in the outfit and they were getting
special permission to make films outside Florence. I was to be his big
discovery, and he went through the Command to get me the necessary leave
like a knife going through butter. That’s how it happened.’

There was a long silence. I wanted to tell him that it did not matter
how it happened, and that I could guess. I wanted to say that I wasn’t a
fool, and I could imagine what it was like to see a chance of getting
away from weary horror, and that I could forgive anybody, let alone him,
from shrinking from revisiting that pretty, shabby old house in
Southersham where every click of a door latch must have brought him
leaping up to meet someone who could never be there again. But I didn’t
say anything.

Behind us in the dark was the one thing which needed explanation. My
throat grew dry and I fidgeted.

‘Francia Forde was with them?’ I murmured, and held my breath.

‘She was about.’ His face was hardly so handsome with those deep lines
in it.

‘You fell for her too?’

‘That was a mistake. I knew it. I was a fool.’ I felt him draw into
himself and the shutters come down between us. ‘That’s something I can’t
tell you, or rather, something I won’t tell you. Do you mind?’

Mind? Mind? When we had so little time!

‘Good heavens, no,’ I said. ‘I’m dying to talk about myself. I’ve fallen
for whooping-cough.’

‘Have you?’ His interest came back like a light playing over me. ‘It’s a
tremendous subject. Most of the men I see in these days are still
prescribing conium and ipecacuanha.’

‘Oh, I can do better than that.’ I climbed stiffly on my hobby-horse,
while all the time behind us in the gloom lay Francia, hovering between
life and death and holding in her limp fingers everything that to us was
worth living for. Gradually our talk changed to the diseases of
children, and before we knew it our old dreams were out again, hanging
like beautiful swathes of coloured material from the cornices.

‘I’ve had my eye on Nurse Tooley for our clinic,’ I said.

‘What, this one?’ He was very interested. ‘Yes, she’s quite exceptional,
isn’t she? I noticed that. What’s she like with kids?’

‘Marvellous.’ I started to say and the word had caught and died in my
throat. I bent my head over my hands. There was nothing I could do. The
tears ran down my face, over my chin and on to my coat. I stove my body
into the chair and struggled with myself, and his hand crept over my
elbow and on to my wrist, where it settled like a band of steel.

‘Ann . . . . oh, Ann.’

It might have been the end of the world.

                 *        *        *        *        *

I heard it first. My ears, attuned to the faintest nuance in his voice,
the slightest sound in the house, picked up the altered breathing from
the bed. As I sprung to my feet the other sound came. It was deep,
breathy, and quite horribly loud.

We were both on the other side of the room in an instant and John’s
fingers fumbled as he felt for the lamp switch. Francia lay as we had
left her. She was on her back and her hair, like golden seaweed, lay
spread across the pillow. But for the first time since I had seen
her—her eyes were open and as the light reached them they fluttered
closed again. Her lips moved and very slowly she turned her head away.
My heart turned slowly over in my side, or that was what it felt like.
Hardly daring, I put out my hand and took her wrist. The pulse was not
so fast. It fluttered no longer.

I looked at John on the other side of the bed. His face startled me. He
was radiant. Pure joy looked out of his eyes as he watched her. His lips
were half open as if he were helping her, forcing her, to speak.

She woke like the Sleeping Beauty after a thousand years. She was still
drugged. Her eyes tried to focus and gave up. Her dry lips moved and she
struggled with the clouds which held her. Her will to live was
tremendous. I felt it in her pulse. She was fighting manfully. One could
only admire her.

I gave her a tiny sip from the cup beside me and she swallowed greedily.

‘Francia.’ John spoke sharply in the quiet room.

Her great eyes fluttered open and she looked full at him. Recognition
was complete. There was even surprise.

‘John,’ she said in a silly little baby voice, and her small claw of a
hand, which still had crimson lacquer on its nails, closed pathetically
over his.

In another moment she had gone again. He released himself gently and
stood up and wiped his forehead. The dazed, delighted expression was
still in his eyes and his voice had a catch in it.

‘We’ve done it’ he said. ‘She’ll do. That’s Phase One. Now, Ann, wake
the nurse.’

I could do nothing at all. I turned and went blindly out of the room
with a mind which must have been in much the same state as the
patient’s.

When Nurse came hurrying in, fastening her belt and looking strange and
older without her cap, he was walking about the room like a lunatic.

‘Broth,’ he said abruptly. ‘Anything hot and fluid and nourishing.
She’ll wake up starved in a minute. You did this, Nurse, you and Dr
Fowler.’

‘You must take the credit yourself, sir.’ She was beaming at him and for
the first time I saw little beads on her wide bumpy, forehead. So she
had been scared too, had she? ‘She is so frail, you see, I thought. . .’

‘Yes,’ he said, looking down, ‘so very little.’

I hardly heard him. I went into the bathroom and met a drawn, hard
powderless face with red eyes peering at me out of the mirror. My hair
looked as though someone had been trying to pull it off me in a bunch,
and my white coat was wet round the neck. My bag was in there and I did
what I could with myself, but my hands were shaking and there was
something funny about my eyes. They had grown, for one thing, and looked
like a tragedy queen’s in full make-up.

When I came out, John had fixed himself a high seat where he could
command the bed, and he was sitting there, one hand on her pulse, his
gaze fixed steadily on her face.

‘Damned near normal,’ he said over his shoulder. ‘Do you think I’d raise
the house if I burst into song?’

I bit back what I was going to say and made myself very busy.

‘I wonder if I ought to go and help Nurse?’

‘No. She’ll find anything that’s there. Nurses like that have six
senses. They find sustenance in deserts and under flowerpots. You leave
it to her.’

‘And the patient to you?’

He didn’t even notice my tone. ‘Yes,’ he said contentedly, ‘and the
patient to me. Look out.’

Francia stirred again and he gave her water, and I washed her mouth. She
was gaining every minute, and every minute I was seeing more and more
clearly the sort of person I thought she must be. Her beauty was but the
half of it, I suspected.

John cut into my thought. ‘Of course you don’t know her, do you?’ he
said cheerfully. ‘You wait.’

On the last word he bent over her again, and so mercifully did not see
my face.

Nurse returned triumphant with a smoking bowl on a tray.

‘Just tinned soup,’ she apologized, ‘but it’s a good kind. Mr Gastineau
had to come out and find this for me himself, or I shouldn’t have got a
thing. I’ve told him to send down to the town, wake somebody up and get
me some meat extract.’

John waved her to the hearth. He was still in ecstatic mood.

‘Keep it hot a minute. She won’t be so long now.’

Since there was absolutely nothing for me to do, I sat down in the
larger of the two chairs by the fire. My idea was to think out the next
step. What were we going to do about Gastineau? The problem of Francia
seemed to have been settled. John was attending to that.

The heat crept over me and the relief from the strain of the last
thirteen hours was very relaxing. Sleep hit me like a hammer. I felt it
and hardly struggled against it. My last conscious thought was that
there was nothing, nothing that I could do.

I awoke feeling that I was sailing slowly up an enormous lift shaft, and
opened my eyes to see the cold light turning the chintz curtains grey.
In the room, very far away, someone was speaking. It was a voice I had
never heard before, female and husky and affected, and it said, unless I
was still dreaming:

‘Not t’irsty, t’ank you.’

I sat up and saw Nurse Tooley looking down at me, a harassed expression
on her shining face.

‘Well, it’s a wonderful thing to be able to sleep,’ she remarked. ‘I’ve
heard you say so yourself, Doctor. Good morning to you.’

‘I say, I’m sorry.’ I got up and stretched my cramped legs. John was
still at the bedside. I could see his shoulder blades, sharp and
weary-looking, showing through the white linen of his coat.

Raised now, on a heap of pillows, her hair combed and her eyes wide
open, lay Francia. As I went over I realized that something was
different and before I reached the bedside I knew what it was. The
entire atmosphere had changed. During all the terror and misery of the
night we three had been comrades, linked by a single outlook. Now that
was gone. A stranger had arrived.

John got up. He was exhausted and there were dark rings to his eyes.

‘Take over, will you? I don’t want her to sleep for a bit. See what you
think of the general condition.’

‘You’re going to leave me?’ The patient, who was as weak as a fish and
still had the drug about her, managed to convey a sort of halfhearted
seductiveness and her little hands moved.

‘Just for a while.’ John spoke firmly and kindly and exactly as any
other doctor would have done. ‘Dr Fowler will look after you.’

‘Vewy well.’ Her great eyes rolled away from him and came to rest on me.
‘Can you move me? I’m tired. One of my shoulders hurts. I don’t know
which one. Well, find out, can’t you?’

Her speech was still slurred and she must have been only half there, but
it was perfectly plain that she had one manner for men and another for
women, neither of them guaranteed to have been successful, I should have
thought.

In the next twenty-five minutes I learnt about Francia Forde, and an
hour later I could have written an essay on her, and I was a less
jealous but infinitely more puzzled woman. She was the most unsubtle
person I had ever met and she had one interest—Francia. She was
practically without subterfuge; and greed, which is of all the vices the
one most instantly apparent to the average human being, gleamed out of
every word and every movement and every look. Her hands were greedy, her
eyes were greedy. The moment she was not acting, rapacity appeared. Poor
little thing, she didn’t even hide it.

Whatever I had expected, it had not been this. Gastineau’s story was
completely convincing in every particular save the important one. It
seemed impossible to me that he should have loved her. Yet, when I
remembered that the incident had taken place at the beginning of the
war, ten years ago, when she must have been still in her teens, perhaps
it was not so difficult. She must have looked like a flower. Perhaps
even her greediness had been pretty, like a child’s.

The thing I did not understand at all was John. He was sitting with his
back to me in the chair I had slept in, and I saw his dark head above
it. If he had been taken in, even for an hour by _this_, he simply
wasn’t the man I thought he was.

I left Francia to Nurse and went to him. He considered me with narrowed
eyes and did not move. His arms were folded and he looked like a sleepy
bird.

‘What are we going to do with her?’ He did not speak aloud but mouthed
the words very elaborately, so that I was bound to follow them.

After a bit he tried again. ‘Can’t leave her here, can we?’

It was the one mood I had not expected. We were in a fine old
predicament, the two of us.

‘I’ll find out.’ I spoke with decision. The problem of Gastineau was yet
to be solved. Our duty was plain. We ought to remove the woman and
inform the police, and yet I shrank from it. I was not a detective . . .
or a judge either. Yet one could hardly leave him loose, perhaps to try
to kill again. However, I could make him talk. He owed me that at least.

I went out of the room, stepped on to the dark landing, closed the door
very softly behind me as a doctor should, and froze.

Seated near the top of the stairs was the man with the umbrella. He
still had it with him, neatly rolled, hanging over the back of the
chair. His hat was on his knees.

He rose as I appeared and favoured me with one of his apologetic stares.

‘Good morning, Doctor. May I hope that the patient is a little better?’

I was not afraid of him any more. I made the discovery with a stab of
delight. Indeed, eyeing him now, it seemed absurd that I ever had been,
he was so meek and gentle-looking.

‘Yes, thank you,’ I said cheerfully, and was about to pass when he made
a most surprising remark.

‘I fear everyone else has gone,’ he said. ‘That was why I thought it
best to come up here.’

‘Gone?’ I repeated stupidly.

‘Oh dear.’ It seemed to be his favourite expletive. ‘I made sure you
knew. Otherwise I should have certainly ventured to warn you. But since
you had seen Mr Gastineau destroying his papers I made certain you had
guessed his intentions. He and his servants went off in the car soon
after the nurse came down for broth. I think she told someone to go for
meat extract, but as they all took their suitcases I really don’t
suppose they will be back.’

It was the longest speech I had ever heard him make. He towered over me
and his pale eyes were frighteningly intelligent as they looked down
into mine.

‘I sincerely hope I’ve not been unhelpful, but since I heard you trip
over the manservant’s trunk in the back kitchen I really thought that
you were aware that they contemplated flight.’

His excessive formality might have been funny at any other time.

‘Where were you?’ I demanded.

‘I—er—I moved,’ he said obliquely. ‘I didn’t want to introduce myself
just then.’

‘Who are you?’ I nearly said, ‘Who on earth are you?’ but I had the
impression that might have hurt him.

He was very dignified. He produced a card at once, with relief, I
thought. Engraved on the pasteboard in fine flowing script were the
words:

                          _Reacquaintance Ltd_

                           _Mr Roland Bluett_

‘Oh, a detective agency!’ I exclaimed in triumph, and a flush appeared
on his high cheekbones.

‘We don’t call ourselves that, Doctor,’ he protested gently. ‘We are a
very old established firm. We specialize in finding lost people with the
maximum amount of discretion. Most of our work concerns lost relatives,
of course, but this . . . this was rather different. In this case we
represent Messrs Moonlight, a rather larger concern than our own if not
quite so long established.’

‘I see,’ I agreed slowly.

He sighed. ‘I’m so glad,’ he said simply. ‘I did so fear you might have
formed a wrong impression. My clients were merely anxious to make
certain that nothing of—er—how shall I say? . . . an unfortunate
nature would appear about Miss Forde in the very same newspapers which
had arranged to carry their advertisements. You do see, Doctor, that
would have been most embarrassing?’

‘Do you know how near it might have happened?’ I felt unkind as soon as
I had spoken. He looked both intelligent and appalled.

‘I gathered it,’ he said earnestly. ‘I’ve been on tenterhooks, believe
me. But my position was particularly difficult since the lady was in the
care, and not the very good care, I fear, of her husband.’

My heart jumped violently but I didn’t understand him. I stood looking
at him blankly until he said primly: ‘Miss Forde was married to Mr
Gastineau some years ago in Sweden. We have verified that.’ He conveyed
that as far as he knew a marriage in Sweden was legal, but not of course
so good as it would be in England.

Even in my shaking-kneed condition I felt that he and Percy should have
met.

‘Are you sure of this?’

‘Oh, without a doubt,’ said Mr Bluett firmly. ‘Otherwise my position
would have been so much easier, wouldn’t it? You would have found me at
the front door, Doctor, not the back. It was the return of Mr Gastineau,
virtually from the dead, which has made most of our trouble.’

‘But I thought Miss Forde was married to—to someone else,’ I said
huskily.

He regarded me with horror and said the last thing I had expected.

‘Now that really would be intolerable. I know there was an unfortunate
publicity story which appeared before she was famous, about some
runaway—er—escapade in Italy, but believe me, that was pure fiction.
Miss Forde herself assured my clients when they were checking her
credentials that there was nothing in it. They understood that she was a
widow, Mr Gastineau’s widow. When they learnt that she had vanished
after going to dine with her husband, who had so suddenly reappeared,
they were naturally anxious, so they put matters in our hands.’

‘Because they feared that she might be on the verge of a breakdown?’ I
murmured cruelly.

He met my eyes very steadily.

‘On the verge of a breakdown,’ he repeated meekly, and the vague
expression crept over his eyes again.

I said nothing. My mind was seething with a thousand questions and it
was some seconds before I heard his polite inquiry.

‘When do you think she will be well enough for me to take her back,
Doctor?’

When it did sink in I nearly fell over.

‘Take her back?’ I whispered.

‘Naturally.’ He was surprised by my stupidity. ‘Quite frankly, now that
I have found her I have no intention of leaving her side. My clients are
in the process of spending two million pounds in publicizing their
product in advertisements which—er—incorporate her face. Now that Mr
Gastineau has gone, she will hardly want to stay here. I should like to
take her back to her flat in London.’

I didn’t know what to do. I stood there shaking, wondering whether to
tell John at once, wondering whether to clasp dear Mr Bluett by the
hand, wondering whether to sit down and cry with relief. The thing that
settled the matter was the most unexpected incident in the whole of that
hectic week-end.

Downstairs in the front hall somebody coughed loudly and, looking over
the banisters, I found myself facing Percy Ludlow and Sergeant Archer.
They were both cold and miserable and Percy looked furious. As he saw me
he heaved a noisy sigh.

‘Ann! Thank God for somebody sensible. Come down, can you? Give this
feller some sort of statement.’

Mr Bluett had faded into the background like a shadow so I went down to
them alone. Percy had his hands in his coat pockets and was stamping on
the tiles to keep his feet warm. It was clear that he had been dragged
out of bed, for he was unshaven and there was a muffler round his
throat.

Archer was in much the same state, except that his uniform hid his lack
of collar, and both men were covered with mud. The sergeant was more
quiet and paler than I had ever seen him, and it took me some minutes to
grasp that this new attitude of his was partly deference and partly
shock. Percy surprised me by taking my arm.

‘You look tired. Had a bad night? Patient doing?’

‘Not bad,’ I assured him. ‘Sitting up.’

‘Eating?’

‘A little.’

‘That’s all right, then. Sorry to bring you more trouble, but we can’t
get on without you. The two survivors can’t speak anything but monkey
talk.’

‘Survivors?’

‘Yes.’ He blew the word into a bubble. ‘Another blessed road smash. And
I tell you what, Ann, and I don’t mind saying it in front of a
policeman, he can take it down if he likes, it’s solely the fault of
that fool woman.’

‘What woman?’

He exploded. ‘Why, Lizzie! She was the only woman on the road. Lizzie
Luffkin, silly old besom. She admitted to running out to a fast-moving
car and shining a torch in the eyes of the driver. I ask you! I hope she
gets a reprimand from the court—in fact I’ll see she gets it. Car
turned clean over. One man died instantly.’

‘Who?’ I asked, although I think I knew.

Percy patted me. ‘Your patient, my dear. Sorry, but there you are. I
think I’m right. Osteoarthritis, far advanced.’

‘Yes, that’s Gastineau.’

‘That’s all I want to know, Doctor.’ Archer was gentle. ‘Just the name
and approximate age. I can’t get a word of sense out of the others.’

Percy stayed with me and when the policeman had gone tried to comfort
me, I don’t quite know why.

‘Poor feller,’ he murmured, standing on the doorstep, his legs wide
apart, his old eyes roaming the morning scene. ‘Poor, poor feller. But
still, arthritis. Joints badly affected. He hadn’t much to look forward
to, had he?’

‘No.’ I spoke more softly than I had intended. ‘No, he hadn’t. Nothing
at all.’

Nurse and Mr Bluett stayed with Francia, and before I left Peacocks I
rang Mr Robins again and arranged for the Mapleford ambulance to take
her back to London but not to Barton Square. Mr Bluett, who revealed a
remarkable resource, fixed for a London nurse to travel with her.

No one appeared to notice that it was a little odd that Gastineau and
his servants should have decided to go driving in the dawn with a carful
of luggage. Mapleford was so aghast at the accident, and so intrigued by
its cause, that it missed the obvious, and the only person who would
have been certain to seize on it was not saying very much just then.
Poor Miss Luffkin had taken to her bed with the outspoken Wells as her
medical attendant.

I took John home to breakfast and Rhoda met us with a look which said
plainly as words that we could tell her what we liked, but as she saw it
we’d been out all night. However, since John was so thin, she spread
herself over breakfast, and while she was cooking and singing ‘Careless
Hands’ with expression, I snatched a bath and he telephoned Grundesberg.

We sat in the sunny window with coffee, home-made bread, and the butter
which Rhoda had given her by a woman who knows a cow, and we did not
look at each other. The world was quiet and warm and green and I was
happy and hungry and curious.

John was happy too. It glowed in him and made him different and
exciting, and not at all as I had known him as a boy.

After a long time he said abruptly:

‘I had a talk with Mr Bluett, and if he’s right about Francia Gastineau
you’ll have to have me led around by a keeper, Ann. Choose someone
kind.’

‘Is he right?’

‘I don’t know.’ He spoke very slowly, putting out his hand to find mine.
‘The thing that makes it credible is the otherwise unbelievable attitude
of Messrs Moonlight and Company.’

‘Why?’

‘Well, my dear girl, a concern of that size doesn’t merely choose a
pretty face, however famous. It’s a serious business, that sort of
advertising. They must have examined her record very carefully before
they risked using her in a scheme as vast as that. If she said she was
Gastineau’s widow they’d have spotted any legal second marriage, or so I
should have thought.’

I turned round to him, put my hands on his shoulders and looked into his
face.

‘It’s time I had that story, John.’

His face was close to mine, but there was no deeper colour in it and his
eyes were thoughtful rather than ashamed.

‘Now we’ve saved her silly little life for her, I don’t seem anywhere
near so sore,’ he observed unexpectedly. ‘That was why I was so thrilled
when I saw her reviving, I suppose. My God, she made a monkey out of
me.’

‘What was this?’ I burst out with some asperity. ‘A shotgun wedding?’

That annoyed him and his arms closed round me to make certain of me
while he talked. In some ways he had not changed since he was ten.

‘I didn’t write and tell you about the film offer because I knew that
you’d never approve of my giving up medicine, and I wanted to get it all
fixed before you could advise against it,’ he announced with all the
peculiar irritability of a man making a confession.

‘Very wise,’ I murmured.

He sighed and pushed my head down on his shoulder.

‘I told you. I fell for the movie offer and I helped push the thing
through with the army. The company was going to make a film with the old
French stage star, Mme Duse, a wonderful old dear, Ann. She had a face
like a duck but she could make you laugh or cry at will. I was to be the
young army officer, bursting with charm and verisimilitude, who was to
make hay with her daughter’s heart as I came charging in with my men to
liberate ’em all.’

‘Yes, I see all that.’

‘I don’t think you do,’ he said grimly. ‘I was so dead keen and so were
all my buddies in the regiment. Some of ’em were to be loaned for small
parts, and we were like kids about it all. The war was over and this was
the first pleasant thing to happen to us for years. Unfortunately I was
teacher’s pet and I didn’t know the ropes at all. There’s a hell of a
lot of jealousy in that business, Ann.’

‘I believe you,’ I laughed and he pushed my head down again.

‘It’s not quite as you think, all the same. The movies are a much more
chancy business than most, and publicity seems to mean such a hell of
lot to everybody. You see, until the little director chap discovered me,
and got a story with me about my being given indefinite leave because I
was just what they wanted and typical and all that, until then the
_daughter_ was supposed to be the second most important person in the
show.’

‘Oh, I see. And she was to be played by Francia?’

‘Exactly. Francia had been spotted playing “bits” in Sweden and had been
sent over for the part. She was a go-getter in her way. At least she
wouldn’t let anything stand in it. But unfortunately when she arrived I
had appeared on the scene, and seemed all set to steal her thunder.’

He paused. ‘Mind you, there was not a great deal of thunder to go round.
We only had what Mme Duse left. However, the director had become sold on
me and he had the script-writers enlarge my part. The result was that it
didn’t look as if Francia’s big chance was going to get her very far.’

‘Did she make it clear that she resented that?’

He grinned. ‘Not to me. I suppose I was the only soul in the outfit who
had no notion what was happening. My idea was to act. I didn’t know
there was any more to the job. God, I was green! Francia began by
snubbing me, and then, after she’d had a good look around, suddenly made
a dead set at me. I wasn’t attracted and I kept out of her way. That’s
why what happened took me completely by surprise.’

He hesitated. ‘I think I exasperated her,’ he said at last. ‘Anyway,
just as all the preliminary publicity was going out she gave a party. I
couldn’t get out of going. I drank what I was handed and after that it
was the Bristol Splice trick pure and simple.’

I wriggled my head round to look at him and sat up.

‘What’s that?’

He was sneering, his fastidious nose contemptuous.

‘The Bristol Splice is the trick that in the seventeenth century the
ladies of the town used to play on those prudent sailors who had left
their pay with the mate, my dear. I didn’t remember the end of the
party, and when I did wake, with my head on fire, it was the day after
tomorrow so to speak. I was in a country hotel bedroom, Francia was
dancing about in a negligee, and a friend of hers—one of the lads who
wrote publicity—was showing a pack of Italians, who he said were
newspapermen, a picture of Francia in a wedding dress and an Italian
civil marriage certificate. Everybody was drinking our health.’

‘What did you do?’

He smiled angrily. ‘Oh, same like the sailors, I’m afraid. It’s a
time-honoured reaction, except that I had the presence of mind not to
talk. I knocked out the publicity writer and, while Francia was reviving
him, dressed hurriedly in the bathroom and lit out of the window. So
ended my movie career.’

‘But, darling,’ I protested, ‘didn’t you go back to the film people at
all?’

He shrugged his shoulders. ‘Where was the use? I’d got it into my head
that the certificate was genuine. I made certain I was trapped. If I
made a row I damned myself and the film, and if I didn’t, well, I had
Francia on my hands. Besides . . .’

‘Besides what?’

He gave me a curiously timid glance from under his lids.

‘I thought I was probably better at medicine. Oh, have a heart, Ann! I’d
come smartly out of the rose-pink fog. I was sick to death of the whole
lot of ’em.’

I sat thinking. He might at least have told me. And yet I knew a little
of the odd mental conditions which appeared in men who had suddenly been
released from years of active service. For a time some of them had
developed the self-consciousness which would have been considered
excessive in a Victorian miss of seventeen.

We were still holding hands and I moved a little nearer to him.

‘You’d better find out about the marriage now.’

‘Good lord, yes.’

I couldn’t resist it. ‘Lucky I waited,’ I observed.

He pulled me close to him and kissed me squarely on the mouth.

‘I had my eye on you all the time.’

‘What?’

‘I found out where you were when I got back. Then I had to get a job and
I had to make good at it. Last week I thought the time had come, and I
set about breaking things to you gently. I began by letting it be known
in Southersham that the prodigal had returned. I knew someone would pass
it on.’

I sat up at that.

‘Do you mean to say that you were conceited enough to expect me to
approach you?’

He pulled me back again and chuckled.

‘Hang it,’ he said, ‘I got a telegram.’

Rhoda stopped the fight by appearing in the doorway, the morning papers
in her hand.

‘See here.’ Her voice was packed with admiration. ‘Look at that Miss
Francia doing her washing. Doesn’t she look lovely? All over a whole
page!’




                            SAFER THAN LOVE


                                PART ONE

I suppose the most frightening thing in the world is the moment when one
realizes that courage isn’t going to be enough. One plods along
cheerfully, convinced that one hasn’t got a breaking point, and then,
quite suddenly and at the most unlikely moment one sees it, not yet
quite on top of one but not so far ahead.

That was why I crossed the road before old Mrs Wycherley caught sight of
me. I had nothing against her, poor old darling. She was kindness
personified, and the canon’s sister, but I knew that in less than five
minutes I should be seeing her sad eyes peering out of her unpowdered
face, should be feeling her gloved hand on my arm, and, out of a warm
cloud of cologne and mouthwash, should hear her soft voice saying: ‘How
_are_ we today, my dear? Forgive me, but you look so _young_.’ And I
felt I couldn’t stand it.

Mrs Wycherley always said that. At first I had assumed that she was
worrying because I didn’t start a baby, but just lately it had dawned
upon me that she was only guessing, with the rest of the insatiably
inquisitive town of Tinworth, and was inquiring if I _could_ be happily
married. So far I had always been brightly reassuring but this morning,
the moment I saw her black drapery bearing down upon me, I turned and
fled across the glistening surface of Tortham Road, panic-stricken. It
alarmed me all the more because I had not dreamed that I could ever be
that sort of person. Until then I should have said that I was a young
woman who didn’t hold with panic. I hurried down the Tortham Road, giddy
with the shock of the discovery.

Every provincial town of any size in southern England has its own
Tortham Road under some name or other. It is the good road, the
residential street leading off the main shopping centre where, in their
heyday some eighty years ago, Victorian merchants built their little
mansions. These still squat there, portly and inconvenient, each boldly
individual in style to the point of mock-Gothic turrets or pagoda-topped
conservatories, and each muffled like a sleeping beauty in thickets of
laurel and rhododendron. Now, of course, they are nearly all nursing
homes, or converted flats, or schools. Our school, the one of which my
husband was Headmaster, was at the far end of Tortham Road and our
estate marked the end of the town and the beginning of the fields. The
main house, dominating the four others put up to form dormitories for
the boys, really was a mansion. It had been modernized, but the broad
Georgian façade, glowing in rose brick at the far end of wide lawns, had
been built by a retiring Tinworth banker at the time of the great
merger, and it still bore his name.

Buchanan House was a first-class private preparatory school, and little
boys came there as boarders from all over the country to be made ready
for Tortham College, which could hold its own with—well, if not quite
with Eton, at least with most of the others.

Tinworth was delighted with Buchanan House. As a market town with a side
line in the manufacture of agricultural implements, it did not set out
to be particularly intellectual itself, but it liked its school and
liked it all the more because there was nothing state-aided about it.
Parents paid and paid highly, and their money went out into the town’s
trade. Ratepayers, startled by the demands of the County Council for the
new education account, felt that was as it should be.

As headmasters go, Victor was young. He was in his late thirties and was
thought to be brilliant. Indeed, if all I’d been told was true, Tinworth
was prepared to credit him with the brain of an Einstein and the
knowledge of an encyclopedia, but that did not prevent it from
speculating with uncanny insight about his private life. I was beginning
to realize that after my six months of marriage to him.

I was walking very fast, almost running, the shopping basket I carried
for show swinging on my arm and my straw hat flapping. I was forgetting
my dignity and trying to forget everything else, including the
atmosphere I had come out to escape, not to mention my latest
irritation, which was the news that Andy Durtham, of all people, was
going to take a locum job here in Tinworth for Dr Browning while the old
man went on holiday.

Dorothy’s letter, mentioning this somewhat startling news amid a host of
other gossip from St Jude’s, where she was still a Sister, was in my
pocket. It had only arrived that morning, but as usual there was no
telling when she had written it. Dorothy wrote letters as some people
knit woollies, now and again when the mood took her. It was sometimes
possible by carefully noting the changes of ink in the closely scribbled
pages, to discover if any particular item was some months old or
comparatively recent, and I was just wondering if I could pull the
untidy bundle out and examine it again there and then in the street when
I saw Maureen Jackson thumping down the sidewalk towards me.

Miss Jackson was the Headmaster’s secretary and, I suppose, about five
years older than I was. The notion that the Head’s wife was always older
than the Head’s secretary had made our relationship, I thought, vaguely
awkward at first, but she appeared to have decided to ‘settle all that’
in her cheerfully efficient way by treating me always with bluff
kindliness, as if I was not quite right in the head or a foreigner. So
far I had not attempted to enlighten her, because she was Tinworth
personified and I was trying very hard to get the hang of Tinworth.

Miss Jackson was the daughter of the town’s best auctioneer and estate
agent, quite a powerful person in that community, and her relatives
seemed to spread into every conceivable branch of the town’s affairs.
Her grandfather had been Mayor seven times. Her uncle was the owner of
the great ironmongers and agricultural engineers in the High Street. Her
mother was an Urban District Councillor, and at least two of her
brothers were Justices of the Peace.

She came thumping towards me, big, bony, and not uncomely, with a
pink-and-white face and clear cold-blue eyes which were somehow typical
of Tinworth in their bland self-satisfied intelligence. She was known as
the ‘thundering English rose’ by the junior masters, whom she used to
treat with offhand tolerance. I understood her work was excellent, and
she certainly took Victor’s acid rebukes with amiable forbearance.

‘Morning!’ she shouted at me when we were within hailing distance. ‘The
vac. is heaven, isn’t it? Or don’t you like it?’

Her last question brought her level with me and she did the thing all
Tinworth seemed to do, pausing and looking into one’s eyes and investing
ordinary trivial questions with direct inquiry. As usual it put me
slightly at a disadvantage. To say outright that I’d temporarily
forgotten that the day before yesterday all the boys and most of the
masters had gone home for the summer holidays, and that yesterday the
majority of the domestic staff had dispersed also, would be about as
silly as mentioning that one had forgotten a recent earthquake or an
invasion in arms. On the other hand, if one said that as far as one’s
own life was concerned it appeared to make no difference at all, I knew
a shadow of suppressed excitement would float over that bovine
countenance of peaches and cream and she would want to know why. To do
it justice, Tinworth never minded asking.

‘It’s very pleasant,’ I said, adding idiotically, ‘Are you going to the
school?’

‘Of course I am. The letters still come, don’t they? I should have
thought you’d have known that.’ There was no impudence in the last
observation. It was just another inquiry, a sharp inquisitive inquiry if
I’d really forgotten I’d once held down a high-powered secretarial job
at St Jude’s Hospital myself. Her blue-eyed stare was filled with pure
curiosity. I said nothing at all so she had to go on. ‘I expect the
Headmaster’s out of his room by now, isn’t he?’

‘He was there when I came out,’ I told her, adding drily, ‘with Mr
Rorke.’

‘Oh.’

I don’t know quite how people bridle, but if it means that an expression
both disapproving and self-righteous, if admittedly justified, comes
over their faces, Maureen bridled.

‘I’d better hurry along. Good-bye, Mrs Lane.’

The thud of her feet was still in my ears, and I had only just had time
to remember that at least she had not asked me outright where we were
going for our summer holiday, when I saw my next hurdle. Bickky Seckker
was advancing demurely down the path towards me, his gold spectacles
glinting in the morning sun.

Mr P. F. Seckker was senior classics master at Buchanan House, and the
fact that he’d been just that for more years than anyone would like to
mention probably accounted for much of the school’s reputation. His
nickname, a reference to his initials, which were the same as those on a
favourite brand of shortcake, indicated his standing with successive
generations of boys. Very few masters achieve such an innocent
soubriquet.

When I first met him I had assumed he was a very ordinary elderly
bachelor, a little old-maidish and perhaps the least bit seedy, but as
the months went on I had revised my opinion and was fast coming to think
he was the kindest soul I had ever met in my life. He smiled at me,
hesitated, made sure that I really did want to stop (which I didn’t, of
course, but I would have died rather than hurt his feelings), and came
out with the one most unfortunate remark which from my point of view he
could have made.

‘I don’t know when you’re off for your vacation, Mrs Lane, but my sister
and I will be at home here at Tinworth all the holidays and my sister—I
mean we—would be delighted if you’d drop in to see us just whenever you
feel like it.’ He was a little shy, as he always was with what he was
apt to describe quite suddenly as ‘a very, very pretty woman’, and he
twinkled and glowed at me as if he were twenty-four and not I. ‘Nothing
formal, you know,’ he chattered on. ‘We are too old, and like most other
people too poor, for formal entertaining, but my sister was talking to
you on Speech Day and she thought that, well, you never know, you might
care sometime for a cup of tea in our walled garden.’

He paused abruptly and to my horror I realized that my face was growing
scarlet.

‘I—I’d love that,’ I said. ‘I would like it better than anything. I’m
not sure—quite—when we’re going away.’

‘Naturally.’ Now that I had betrayed embarrassment, any shyness of his
own was thrust aside and he took social command with all the charm and
ease of his kind. ‘Of course. Well, you must come when you can. We shall
be delighted. I love this warm weather. It suits Tinworth. Some people
think it’s an ugly town, but I don’t. We’ve got history here, you know.
The site of the Roman camp at Mildford is perfectly fascinating. I shall
show it to you one day. Much better than half the things one travelled
all through France to find.’ And then, abruptly, as if he were a gauche
old person surprised into speech, ‘That blue gown of yours makes your
dark eyes darker and puts quite a blue light into that black hair of
yours. There, isn’t that forward of me?’

The old-fashioned word made me laugh, as I think he knew it would.

‘No,’ I protested. ‘It’s charming of you. I feel better and younger
already.’

‘That would be impossible,’ he assured me gravely. ‘Until I show you the
Roman camp, then.’ He raised his polished cherry-wood stick in salute,
since he was hatless, and strolled on, leaving me shaken to find that
even old Miss Seckker, who was considerably his senior and certainly
half blind, should have noticed that I might need a little human comfort
in the sanctuary of her garden. Yet I was glad I had met him and was
grateful for his compliment.

It was at that precise moment as I turned away that I saw Andy. He was
speeding down the road towards me in a well-worn open sports car. We
looked straight at each other for an instant as he passed and then I
heard the shriek of brakes and the revving of the engine as he swung
round in the wide road. In the last few hours I suppose I had envisaged
meeting him again in half a hundred possible places. For some reason I
had assumed that it would be at some very crowded social gathering, the
Agricultural Show perhaps, or one of the eternal sherry parties Tinworth
likes so much. I’d even prepared an opening gambit: ‘Oh yes, of course I
know Dr Durtham. We met at St Jude’s. How nice to see you again, Andy.’

To find him pulling up beside me in this vast and now apparently empty
street called for an entirely different approach and I was so amazed and
so pleased to see him that I couldn’t think of anything at all suitable.

‘Hullo, animal,’ I said.

‘Hullo yourself,’ he said briefly. ‘Get in.’

They say it is impossible to forget anyone you’ve ever been truly in
love with, but it is astounding how easy it is to put out of one’s mind
the things about them which one loved. One of the things I had succeeded
in forgetting about Andy Durtham was his force. He was a big, rakish,
intensely masculine person, dark as I am and not ill-looking in a tough
untidy way, but his chief characteristic, and I suppose charm, was vital
energy. It was a bit overwhelming and there had been a period when I had
found it alarming. It seemed to radiate from him almost noisily, as if
he were an engine ticking over. He was young, of course, only just
qualified.

‘Get in,’ he repeated, holding the door open for me. ‘I want to talk to
you.’

‘I was going to the High Street.’

‘Then I’ll take you there. Come on, Liz.’

I had been called Elizabeth so thoroughly by this time that that I had
forgotten how much I disliked the abominable diminutive. It just sounded
friendly today. I stepped into the car and he sighed, let in the clutch,
and turned round in the road again.

‘Hey,’ I protested, ‘where are you going? I said the High Street.’

‘We’re going there, by Morton Road and the by-pass. That’s the way I
know best. I’ve only been here a week.’

‘A week? I didn’t know.’

‘Too bad. Nobody tells you anything, do they? But I’m going to, and it’s
going to take me just about seven minutes, so—we’ll go by the by-pass.’

I did not speak. Andy was returning to my conscious mind with a rush,
and with a new and painful vividness I remembered why I had written to
him and not phoned or arranged a meeting when I finally decided to marry
Victor.

‘Yes, well,’ he said, and his mouth twisted down at the corners as it
always did when he was embarking on one of his more outrageous
performances, ‘lean back and relax, because you’re going to take this in
if it’s the last thing I do. I’ve been thinking about this lecture very
thoroughly for some months and here it comes, piping hot.’

He turned and peered at me from under bristling eyebrows.

‘First of all, I suppose you know you’ve lost twenty pounds.’

It was such an unexpected thrust that it took me by surprise. Until that
moment I had been enjoying him, like a beautiful draught of fresh air.
Now I was annoyed by his impudence.

‘Don’t be a boor,’ I said. ‘I’ve lost eight.’

‘They were the eight which held your looks. The wan white waif act
doesn’t suit you. Don’t touch the wheel. You’ll break our necks. Still,
I’m glad to see you’re not completely devitalized in spite of all I’ve
heard since I’ve been here.’

I had made no real attempt to touch the wheel, of course. I wasn’t a
child, and we were travelling very fast and passing all the people I’d
met before, but I must have stiffened and I felt the blood in my face.

‘How extraordinary of you to take this locum job down here,’ I said
abruptly. ‘When did you leave St Jude’s?’

‘In my script for this conversation you don’t speak.’ He was not looking
at me. At that moment we were negotiating an unexpectedly narrow turn.
The Vicarage car was parked on the corner, as usual, and a milk tanker
was attempting to pass. We were held up for a second or two and I found
myself face to face with the vicar, who was dithering in front of his
aged bonnet with a starting handle. He stared at me, recognized me with
open astonishment, and was groping for his hat with his free hand when I
was whisked unceremoniously from under his nose.

‘You merely listen,’ Andy continued, squaring himself as the car leapt
forward down the villa-lined length of Morton Road. ‘You have made a
basic psychological mistake and, having got it clear in my own mind, I
intend you to see it. It may not do you much good but you’ve no idea how
it’s going to satisfy me! Look, Liz, you never forgave your mother for
making a mess of her marriage, did you? You always secretly thought she
could have saved it. That’s why you made the idiotic mistake of trying
to play safe.’

He was speaking with utter sincerity, his tone urgent and forceful, and
if instead of speaking he had suddenly pressed a blade directly into my
heart I think the pain he gave me must have been exactly the same.

‘No,’ I said violently, because I wouldn’t and couldn’t let it be true,
‘that’s insulting nonsense. For heaven’s sake let me get out of here.’

He put on a little more speed and he bounced out into the stream of
traffic on the by-pass which Tinworth uses so freely to relieve its own
tortuous streets.

‘You were in love with me,’ he went on doggedly as if I had not spoken.
‘Probably you are still, whether you know it or not. But if it’s not me
it’s someone like me, and it always will be.’

He was not looking at me, which was merciful, for we were in traffic,
and he ignored any sound I made but continued the harangue exactly as if
I were some recalcitrant patient to whom he was in duty bound to report
on a considered diagnosis.

‘There’s a great deal of rubbish talked about the kind of love I mean,’
he said. ‘It’s sublimated and sublimized and sentimentalized and
generally kicked around, but the one ordinary elementary fact which is
self-evident is that it is an affinity exactly like a chemical affinity.
You know the definition of that. You must have typed it for old Beaky
Bowers at St Jude’s often enough. “_The peculiar attraction between the
atoms of two simple substances that makes them combine to form a
compound._” Now I don’t suggest that love _is_ chemical. I only say that
it is _like_ it and quite as irrevocable and inescapable. You love
something because you need it. It is made up of the things you have not
got. You recognize your need instinctively, and instinctively you go for
it as soon as you find it. Be quiet. Listen. You can get out when I’ve
finished.’

Since I could do nothing else I sat bolt upright, staring in front of
me, the furious blood burning in my face. Since I couldn’t keep my hat
on in that air stream I took it off and held it in my lap. I tried not
to listen, either, but one might as well have tried to ignore an
avalanche.

‘People keep saying that one is attracted by opposites,’ Andy’s lecture
continued, ‘but that is one of those sweeping half-truths which are so
misleading. What they mean is that if one hasn’t got quite enough of a
particular characteristic oneself one is automatically attracted by the
person who has a little too much of it. When one finds someone who
appears to balance out _all_ one’s own excesses and deficiencies, one
falls in love with her—er, or him.’

He turned to me, his vivid grey-blue eyes dark with intelligence, and
dropped his professional manner.

‘You must know what I mean, Liz. You’ve got the warmest heart in the
world, but with it you tend to be cautious, intellectual, and reserved.
I tend to be headstrong, intuitive, and confiding. You’re levelheaded to
a fault, I’m on the verge of being wild.’

‘Wild—’ I was beginning, but he stopped me.

‘You’re unconventional and oversensitive and gentle. I’m basically
unconventional and—well, rough. Cruel, if you like.’

Andy’s sincerity had always captured me, holding my attention, forcing
me to think along lines I would not normally have chosen. It performed
its exasperating magic again now.

I was attracted to you, my lad, because you were alive, I thought, and
somehow I don’t seem to be very much alive alone. There was no point in
saying it aloud, of course, and certainly I was alive enough myself at
that moment. I was outraged by him. The tastelessness, the utter
impropriety, the insolence—all the old-fashioned words crowded on to my
tongue, making me temporarily incoherent.

‘You happened to need someone like me,’ Andy was saying with steady
insistence, ‘not in spite of my faults but because of them. You couldn’t
help it.’

‘At that rate, nor could you.’ Of all the words in the world those were
the last I had intended to say. They were silly and dangerous, but in
the last few seconds he had got under my skin.

‘And so what?’ He turned his head and I saw his eyes had become as hard
as marbles. ‘We’re not talking about me. I’ve had my own problem and
I’ve settled it. I sail in three weeks’ time. I’m perfectly all right.
I’m simply explaining your position to you because I don’t think you’ve
seen it.’

‘Sail?’ I said, as if it were the only word I’d heard. ‘Where are you
going?’

‘Newfoundland. There’s a hell of a lot of work to do there. It’s a
rough, hard, free country and it’ll suit me. George Brewster and his
wife are going too. She’ll have to do the secretarial work for both of
us. It’ll be hard going but worth it, I think. Anyhow, all that is
beside the point. I’m clearing out of the country and I just wanted to
explain the whole thing to you before I went. You didn’t give me an
opportunity at the time and I don’t suppose I should have been able to
see it so clearly then if you had.’

‘There’s nothing for you to explain.’ My lips felt stiff as I spoke. We
were entering the lower end of the High Street and I gathered my hat and
basket with what I felt was a gesture of finality. ‘I had merely made up
my mind what I thought would be the best for both of us.’

‘You’d done nothing of the sort, you know, Liz.’ Instead of pulling in
to the curb he put on a burst of speed which shot us out into the main
stream of the morning shopping traffic. I saw several faces I
recognized, all of them surprised, but I had no time even to acknowledge
them. Andy proceeded to wind his way expertly through the throng of
familiar cars, talking all the time in his forceful, forthright way.

‘I had a night out with the boys, got in a stupid rag, and finished up
at a police station. There was a row at the hospital and I got an
imperial raspberry,’ he was saying cheerfully. ‘It wasn’t very clever of
me, but it’s a thing that happens to young doctors who haven’t left
medical school quite long enough. It did me no harm, probably a bit of
good in the long run because it scared me and showed me I wasn’t quite
as intelligent as I thought I was. But the harm it did, the real harm,
Liz was that it frightened you.’

I made an inarticulate noise but he took no notice of it.

‘It frightened you out of all reason, all proportion,’ he said. ‘I ought
to have understood it and then prepared for it, but I wasn’t. You’ve
grown up obsessed by the broken marriage of your parents which spoilt
your childhood, and you were determined not to make the same mistake.
Therefore, when you saw yourself as you thought in love with a drunken
ne’er-do-well (I’m not blaming you, woman, I’m simply clarifying your
mind for you) you panicked, and to save yourself from love you took a
safe offer which happened to come along at that particular moment.’

‘If you’ll stop I’ll get out,’ I said.

‘Can’t park on the corner. Besides, I haven’t finished. We’ll go round
again. This is the last time I shall ever speak to you and I intend to
get this right off my chest.’

We swept out of the main street towards the Tortham Road again and I was
suddenly glad. If this was to be a once-and-forever fight I had
something to say myself. It welled up inside me in a great wave of
self-justification. It was the thing I’d been wanting to explain to the
whole of Tinworth—to the world for that matter—for solid months.

‘I married as I did because I was determined to make a success of it,’ I
bellowed, and realizing I was shouting, lowered my voice abruptly.
‘You’re quite right, in one sense,’ I went on, trying to sound
reasonable and succeeding only in conveying my savage irritation. ‘I did
remember Mother. I did remember how a romantic love affair had become a
jealous bickering match. I did remember that love can die and a woman
and her child can be reduced to dreary misery in the process. I didn’t
want that kind of marriage. I didn’t want the humiliation of any more
divorces. Mother’s was enough for me. I did remember all that, and
therefore I married where I felt I could make a good honest job of it. I
wanted to be a good wife and I wanted to stay married. Now do you
understand?’

He did not answer immediately and when I looked at him his head was
turned a little so that I could only see the angle of his jaw. His face
was darker than ever and I was very much aware of the hard angry muscles
under the coat sleeve at my side. We were roaring up Tortham Road again
by this time and he did not speak until we swung round past the Vicarage
once more. Then he said mildly:

‘Then it wasn’t altogether the row?’

‘No, of course it wasn’t. That simply cleared my mind, and, as you said,
Victor happened to come along at the same moment.’ I felt I was gaining
my point and couldn’t understand why it didn’t make me feel happier.

Andy brought the car to a crawl and looked at me curiously.

‘You just honestly don’t see it, do you, Liz?’ He made the observation
almost gently. ‘You don’t want to, of course. That’s why you’re
deceiving yourself. You were afraid of love, old lady, that’s what you
were escaping from. You wanted something safer.’

His stupidity and obstinacy made me absolutely furious. I had never felt
so helpless. For three quarters of a year I had been clarifying my mind
in private upon the subject, until I felt I knew all about everything I
had ever felt or ever could feel. Now, when I tried to express it for
the first time to another human being, it seemed to be going all wrong.
To make matters worse, until that moment I should have said that Andy
was the easiest person in the world to whom to tell anything. It was his
greatest gift, both as a doctor and as a man.

‘Look here,’ I said, making what I felt was a last attempt to get
through the wool, ‘call it an ideal, if you like. I had set my heart on
a steady, sober, ordinary sort of marriage, something I could make
something of.’

‘And have you got it?’

The question came out quite naturally and without the least hint of
malice. It hit me, of course. I felt the blood go hot in my face. It
rose into my hair, making the roots tingle.

‘I think so,’ I said. ‘I mean, of course I have.’ There was a pause and
I added idiotically, ‘Term time is liable to be very busy for Victor.’

He cocked a shrewd eye at me and I realized all over again how very well
we two were acquainted. It wasn’t going to be easy to hide much from
Andy.

‘And you haven’t had much except term time so far, have you?’ he was
saying slowly. ‘As I hear it, you were married just two days before the
spring term began. Your husband had to spend a short vacation at the end
of that term on a course at a Swiss university where you couldn’t
accompany him. And now here you are at the end of the summer session and
he’s due to go on a mountain-climbing expedition—experts only.’

This shook me and I showed it. I couldn’t help it. My mouth fell open.
For the past twelve hours or so I had thought that I was the only person
to know about this latest bombshell of Victor’s, but if Andy had picked
up the information in the week he’d been in Tinworth it seemed I was
rather late off the mark. I was so amazed I forgot to be humiliated.
Some sort of preservative sixth sense was working, however, and I spoke
promptly.

‘Victor has explained. That was arranged a long time ago. You seem to
know a great deal about us.’

‘Only what everybody tells me.’ He gave me a sudden disarming grin.
‘This is my first experience of a provincial town. You seem to have got
yourself in a fine old parrot house, ducky. They’re wonderful, aren’t
they? Every man his own detective. No mystery too small! Do you _like_
them, Liz?’

‘I don’t know any of them very well, yet,’ I said evasively. ‘They’re
all right. Not terribly exciting.’ My mind was beginning to work again.
I told myself it was all very unfortunate meeting Andy, and he was
behaving abominably, but here was a chance to find out exactly where I
did stand with the town. At least I knew him well enough to know he
wouldn’t lie. I began with great caution. ‘There isn’t much outside
entertainment in a place like this,’ I said. ‘People talk about their
neighbours because there isn’t much else to interest them. Sometimes
they get things rather wrong.’ I hesitated. He didn’t speak. ‘I don’t
know what you’ve heard about me?’

‘About you?’

‘Well, about us generally. What is the gossip? You seem to have the
impression that there is some. Let me straighten it out for you.’

He had the grace to look uncomfortable but to my relief he didn’t avoid
the direct question.

‘There’s no gossip, exactly.’ He bent forward to push a bundle of untidy
memo slips and prescription pads back in the locker in the dashboard, so
that I could see only his cheek. It had coloured a little. ‘There’s no
“talk”, old girl, nothing to worry about.’

‘No, but what do they actually say?’

‘Oh, they’re only intrigued,’ he said at last.

‘About Victor’s marriage? Do they mind him marrying? Do they object to a
city girl?’

‘Oh no, no, nothing like that. You’ve got it wrong, Liz.’ He was looking
at me earnestly now, desperately anxious not to be clumsy and hating
being involved. I knew it served him right but I was almost sorry for
him.

‘Well?’ I persisted.

‘It’s the set-up which they find so interesting,’ he began at last.
‘This husband of yours is a well-known local man who for years seemed
set to remain a bachelor. He seems to have run his life and his school
to a very firmly fixed schedule. The school runs like a machine and his
own holidays have followed the same hidebound pattern. At week-ends he
plays golf hard and actually has a cottage near the links to save time.
On the Easter vacation he goes on some university course designed to
fill it. In the long summer holidays he goes on an expedition up a
mountain with a team of which he is the president, and at Christmas he
has a three weeks’ cultural whirl in London or Paris. Tinworth knew all
about his programme and was used to it.’

He eyed me to see if I was agreeing with him and I made my face
impassive.

‘Well,’ he went on, ‘think of it. One day this lad turns up with a
beautiful young wife who appears to have been something of an organizer
herself, and who looks and sounds as if she might have some ideas of her
own. Naturally everyone sits up waiting to see the changes.’ He paused
and gave me one of his shrewder stares. ‘As far as they can see, there
haven’t been any changes. He seems to be living exactly the same sort
of—well, somewhat self-absorbed life he always did. Tinworth is dying
to know what you’re making of it, that’s all.’

It was his tone on the last two words which made me look up. Until then
he had told me nothing that I did not know rather too well, except that
I had not realized that Tinworth saw things quite so clearly; but
something in that last little phrase struck an alarm bell in my mind.

‘It sounds as if it wasn’t all,’ I murmured, and added, ‘You never were
any good at hiding things.’

‘I’m not hiding anything.’ He spoke a trifle too loudly but a settled
obstinacy had spread over his face and I knew I should get nothing more
out of him. ‘I’ve said too much anyway,’ he insisted. ‘I was merely
trying to point out that although your neighbours down here do seem to
be a pack of chatty old geese, I don’t think they’re entirely
unreasonable. After all, people always do sit round a marriage and watch
who wins, that’s natural.’

‘They think I’m losing, I suppose?’

‘They think you needn’t lie down under the steam roller and quite
frankly neither do I. There’s no need to lose all that weight, surely?
And usen’t your hair to have a wave in it—at the sides, I mean?’

That did it. It was that bit of silly masculine clumsiness coming just
at the right moment which saved me from going to pieces and telling him
the whole story. I might so easily have tried to explain what it felt
like to drop feet foremost into just such a machine as he had described,
and just how impossible it was to reason with or to cajole a man who
never had a moment to hear one. I might also have indulged in the bad
taste of recounting what happened when one tried to stage a fullscale
row, as I had on the evening before when the news that ‘of course’ the
alpine expedition would take place as usual had been given me so
casually. I might also have dilated upon the difference between a man
who is merely cold and one who seemed to have nothing to be warm with
. . . a man one couldn’t even make angry. As it was, I was so hurt, I
said nothing whatever.

Andy turned the car slowly into the High Street again and edged slowly
in to the curb.

‘It hasn’t turned out as I meant it to,’ he said abruptly. ‘I’ve been
obsessed with the desire to get things off my chest, and now that I’ve
done it it doesn’t seem to have got us anywhere. Honestly, I didn’t just
want to add to any difficulties you may have, Liz.’ He was silent for a
moment and then said awkwardly, with the idea of making amends, no
doubt, ‘I think you’ll like to know that nobody blames you for the
whirlwind courtship. This fellow, he—er, your husband, has tremendous
charm and drive, they say . . .’

By this time I was shaking with some emotion which I vaguely supposed
was anger. I heard myself cutting in with a very stupid and revealing
statement:

‘At least the confirmed bachelor did ask me to marry him, Andy. In all
the excitement over our private affairs, no one seems to have offered an
explanation for that rather important point.’ I was looking full at Andy
as I spoke and I saw his expression. He looked suddenly guilty. So the
gossips had a neat little explanation for that too, had they? Whatever
it was, he was not repeating it. He hopped out of the car and came round
to open the door for me. Standing on the pavement, we shook hands very
formally. ‘Good-bye Andy,’ I said. ‘I don’t suppose I’ll see you again.’

He stood looking down at me gloomily and there was nothing but emptiness
all round us.

‘No,’ he said at last, ‘no, Liz, I don’t suppose you will. Sorry about
all this. Silly of me. Good-bye, old lady, good luck.’

We each turned away abruptly at the same moment and I walked off down
the crowded pavement, unaware what I looked like and without seeing
anyone at all. Yet when I reached the chain store on the corner I went
in and bought myself one of those cheap home perm outfits. It was
something of a gesture because Victor considered all beauty treatments a
waste of time and slightly vulgar, and I had had no money to spare for
them since my marriage.

I was standing in the queue at the cash desk, still feeling as if there
was a good stiff layer of ice between me and the rest of the world, when
Hester Raye pounced upon me.

There may be Hester Rayes in other parts of the earth, but she has
always seemed to me to belong quite peculiarly to a certain small
section of present-day society in southern England. Her husband, Colonel
Raye, was Chief Constable of the county (the police always seemed to
choose a retired army man to command them) and she herself had sprung
from army stock. At fifty she was still good-looking. Neither time nor
experience had bequeathed her any tact whatever, and her intense
interest in other people did not seem to have taught her anything
important about them at all. She ploughed through the small-town life of
Tinworth like an amiable tank.

Her smiling eyes, which looked so misleadingly intelligent, shone into
mine.

‘Buying yourself something to make you look pretty? That’s right, never
give up. I never have.’ It was a typical pronouncement, guaranteed at
best to be misunderstood, and at the same moment she gave my arm a
squeeze which would have startled a bear. ‘I was talking about you only
the other day to someone—I forget who, but it was someone quite
intelligent—and I said then I did hope you wouldn’t let your husband
dry all the life and youth out of you—for you’re quite beautiful, you
know; you are really when you take trouble—but that you’d stand up to
him and get a little life of your own however selfish he is. He’s _so_
charming, isn’t he, and _such_ a villain . . .’

I had heard her talk as frankly as this to other acquaintances and I had
wondered how on earth one responded to the bland, patronizing gush which
yet had a sort of outrageous bonhomie in it. Now I understood the
fishlike stares which I had observed on the faces of her victims. There
was no protection one could devise against her at all. She was a product
of the twenties, when it had been fashionable to say the unforgivable
thing, and like the little girl who grimaced in the nursery story, the
wind had changed and she had stayed like it. I remember thinking vaguely
that it was quite clear that she meant well, and perhaps that was why no
one had ever gone berserk and killed her.

‘Are you going back now?’ she demanded. ‘Because if you are I’ll give
you a lift. I’ve got the car outside. I’ve often seen you walking down
Tortham Road and I’ve said, “I bet he doesn’t even let that sweet girl
drive his car in the morning.” No, don’t run away. I want to make you
promise you’ll come to the Flower Club meeting tomorrow. I’ve gone to
fantastic lengths to get Judith Churchman down to lecture on the modern
trend in flower decoration, and I just must have a big audience. You did
promise, you know.’

‘I’ll be there.’ I realized I had shouted at her a second too late to do
anything about it. The avalanche of dropped bricks had been too much for
me altogether. I must have looked rather wild as well, for to my dismay
she decided I was having a nerve storm.

‘Oh, you poor child,’ she said, her grip on me tightening. ‘Come along.
I insist. I’ll drive you home. You’re terribly brave to put such a good
face on things, you know. Everybody says so.’

‘Then I think everybody’s making rather a silly mistake.’ I walked along
beside her as I spoke and climbed into her car. There had been more cold
venom in my tone than I thought I could summon and I noted her startled
expression with deep satisfaction. ‘People who discuss couples whom they
don’t know at all often make utter and rather offensive fools of
themselves, don’t you think?’

She did not answer. The colour had come into her face and she made a
great business of starting up and getting out into the traffic. However,
I had reckoned without her powers of resilience. Before we had gone
fifty yards she was herself again.

‘You don’t know how you surprised me or how pleased I am,’ she announced
with gay naïveté. ‘We’d all been pitying you, you know. Wasn’t it
dreadful of us? I expect it’ll make you furious, but it’s terribly funny
really. Of course we’ve all known Victor for years, that’s why. You’ve
got him right under your thumb, have you? Good for you, my dear. He’s
going to give up that old summer expedition and take you somewhere, is
he?’

‘He’s not going on the expedition.’ The words came out with a conviction
which was completely unjustified, particularly in view of the few chill
words Victor and I had had on the subject the evening before. Victor
never had a row. That was one of the few things I had come to learn
about him so painfully in the past few months. He simply stated his
intention. Usually that was enough. However, as soon as I spoke to Mrs
Raye that morning I realized that I had started some intentions too, and
I knew that the expedition would have to be the issue which settled
things between me and Victor for good and all. She gave me an odd little
glance and I met it steadily, in fact our eyes watched each other until
hers dropped. After a while she giggled.

‘My dear, how wonderful! Just to see you about, you know, one wouldn’t
dream that you had it in you. You sounded positively sinister.’ She
laughed, as far as I could tell with genuine amusement, and settled down
to be cosily confidential. ‘This really is quite terrific and I’m
terribly glad because we’ve all been thinking that it was rather mean of
Victor getting married suddenly like that to silence all the talk, but
then we never realized you _knew_. We all thought that you were the
complete little innocent, you see.’

She was watching the road ahead and did not see my face, which was
fortunate. She drove with the same calm effrontery with which she seemed
to conduct her social life, and while she forced her way through a bunch
of traffic I had time to grasp what she was telling me.

Victor’s sudden decision to find a wife had been occasioned by his
desperate need to silence some sort of gossip which threatened,
presumably, his position at the school. That was the part of the story
which Andy had forborne to mention. I knew it was true as soon as Mrs
Raye spoke. It explained so much about Victor and my life with him, and
made so clear and even forgivable the attitude of the townsfolk towards
me. So that was it. That was the solution to the one mystery which,
until now, had given me some sort of justification, some sort of hope
for my ridiculous ideal for a safe, sound marriage, based on something
more solid than the dangerous sands of love. Now I could see exactly the
sort of fool I’d been.

To my relief I discovered that I was quite past feeling hurt. I had had
more than I could take already that morning, and now I found myself in
that quiet grey country which is on the other side of pain. I was hard
and uncharacteristically shrewd and quick-witted.

‘Oh, I think any bachelor in a small town like this is hopelessly
vulnerable to gossip,’ I remarked lightly, ‘but I hardly see poor Victor
as the local Don Juan, I’m afraid.’ In my tone there was just enough
contempt for the wild life of Tinworth to arouse her. I found that once
one decided to pull no punches she was almost simple to manage. She rose
to the bait at once.

‘Oh, don’t you be so sure,’ she said, quite forgetting who I was,
apparently, in her anxiety to make her point. ‘He’s been awfully well
behaved lately, of course, but _last winter_ . . . ! Well, there never
is any smoke without fire, is there? Besides, you can’t tell _me_. What
about that little hidey-hole he has out on the road to Latchendon?’

‘The cottage by the golf course?’ I said wonderingly.

‘Golf course!’ she exploded. ‘What other man wants a cottage to play
golf in?’

It occurred to me that she had something there, and that either I’d been
born blind or was ripe for the half-wit home. But to do Victor justice,
I’d been shown over the place, which was a very primitive little affair,
and had understood it was merely an escape from the school for an
occasional semi-camping week-end. I knew he’d lent it to a couple of
masters once or twice during term, and it had been used for school
picnics. It had certainly never struck me as being anything in the light
of a love nest. But now that she mentioned it, I could see that it was
perhaps a rather odd place for him to possess, little more than a couple
of miles out of town.

‘What is he supposed to take up there?’ I demanded. ‘Strings of dancing
girls?’

I suppose the bitterness showed through. Anyway, it was not an
intelligent thing to have said, for she gave me a sudden wary glance and
began to retract, stumbling over herself in her anxiety.

‘Oh, I’m not saying there was anything wrong, my dear. I only spoke of
the talk, and how grateful he must be to you that that’s all died down.
Tinworth isn’t narrow-minded. After all, none of us are saints, are we?’

She gave me a roguish smile which belonged all to the 1920s and pulled
up beside the school gates.

‘I thought _your_ boy friend was very handsome this morning, for
instance. Had you met him before? You seemed to be getting along very
well.’

She caught me off guard and I felt my expression growing
horror-stricken. She laughed outright at that and touched my arm.

‘Round and round the town, every time one came out of a shop there you
were tearing down the road with your heads together. You can’t say you
don’t know who I mean. He’s doing a locum for Dr Browning, isn’t he?
Somebody pointed you both out to me this morning and said so, I forget
who. Well, don’t cut the Flower lecture tomorrow, will you? So long, my
dear, and I shall tell everybody that we were quite wrong about you. I
think you’re quite wonderful . . .’

The car slid away without my having to say anything at all, which was
merciful in the circumstances.

                 *        *        *        *        *

The rose-red buildings looked forbidding and forlorn as schools do out
of term time. The shaven grass was well worn and although there was no
litter or untidiness about, yet the place had all the shabby sadness of
a deserted nursery. I walked along the side path, aware of the heat haze
and of the loneliness, but principally conscious that I had no place
there. This was not my home. However much I tried, it would never have
room for me.

I passed under the main arch which had been constructed through the
house into the quadrangle behind without seeing a soul, but instead of
going straight to the Headmaster’s Lodging, which was in the centre of
the block on the southern side, I passed by it and went on to the narrow
gate behind the chapel. I had got to have things out once and for all
with Victor, but I wanted to be quite sure of myself first. There must
be no tears or other signs of hysteria in that interview, and I needed a
little more time to collect myself.

Behind the chapel lay all those utility buildings, old and new, which
did not fit into the main architectural scheme. The boiler houses were
there, and the glasshouses and the swimming pool, the disused stables
and the laundries, all huddled together in a fine muddle of old elegance
and new necessity. I went into the stables, and as my footsteps sounded
on the bricks there was a single shrill bark from the farther loose-box.
Izzy was in my arms a moment later, bounding up on his short legs, his
hard brindled body wriggling in ecstasy. This wild greeting nearly broke
my heart, it was so uncharacteristic of his dour Scotty personality. A
year before he would never have lowered his dignity by anything more
than a discreet wagged tail at my arrival, but then at that time we had
never been apart during his lifetime. This kennel business was part of
Victor’s discipline. He had been very nice about it but very firm. I had
seen that if the boys were not allowed pets in the school I could hardly
expect to have mine at large, and so very comfortable quarters were
arranged for Izzy and I took him for walks every day. It was very nice,
but just not our idea of life, that was all. Poor Izzy and poor Liz,
both victims of the same silly mistake. However, this was the end of all
that. I had decided it.

I set Izzy down and left the door of the box wide.

‘Come on,’ I said, ‘you get a bath after lunch. You smell like a dog.’

He peered at me from under his fierce old-man eyebrows and the little
black eyes which had earned him his pet name were shining and hopeful.
He bounded a little, very clumsily as Scotch terriers do, and then
parked himself at my heels in complete content. Where I was going, so
was he. I felt much better with him behind me.

We came back together and were crossing the yard when the door of the
shower room, which was next to the pool, was shattered open and a most
unexpected person came reeling out almost on top of us. It took me a
moment or two to recognize Mr Rorke, our much-discussed science master.
It was generally understood that Rorke, although admittedly brilliant,
possessed what was euphemistically described as an ‘unfortunate
failing’. Until now I had never taken the story seriously. I had only
seen the gaunt white-faced scarecrow of a man at meals in the
dining-hall, and perhaps twice at the dreary functions which were
described as the ‘Headmaster’s coffee party’, and then he had seemed to
me to be a harmless and even a pathetic figure. I had supposed somewhat
vaguely that his transgressions took the form of quiet tippling in the
secrecy of his room, and was quite unprepared for this spectacular
performance so early in the day. Moreover, he appeared to have attempted
to remedy matters by taking a shower, at least from the waist upwards,
but as he had omitted to remove even his jacket for the operation his
condition now was pitiful. I never saw a man in such a mess. His hair
hung over his eyes in a damp mass and he was shaking violently. Izzy
drew back and began to growl and I hesitated, uncertain whether it would
be kindest to offer assistance or to ignore him altogether. To my dismay
he paused directly in my path and shook a wavering acid-stained hand at
me.

‘You too,’ he shouted, ‘you too.’

I did not quite gather the rest of the sentence. It sounded as if he
prophesied that I should or should not be sorry, I was not sure which.

‘You go and change and lie down,’ I commanded, summoning all the
authority I could muster. ‘You’ll feel better.’ But my tolerance faded
suddenly and the smile was wiped off my face.

Through his tousled hair his eyes peered at me with an intensity which
was intelligent and menacing. I drew back involuntarily and he swung
away and lurched off down the yard towards the back gates. I looked
after him, wondering if I ought not to do something to see he came to no
harm, or if it would be unwise to interfere. Izzy settled the matter by
prodding me firmly in the ankle with his wet nose. It was one of his
most characteristic gestures and meant ‘get along out of here’. It
reminded me that I had troubles of my own to attend to, so I collected
myself and went along to the Lodging to find Victor.

As Izzy and I entered the light, white-painted hall where the parquet
shone with hygienic cleanliness, the silence of the building descended
on me like a tangible cloak. In the normal way the house was full of
hurrying people, and the chatter of typewriters from the school office
never seemed to cease. But all was quiet now and still in the sunlight.
It was a queer little dwelling, designed for its purpose by the
architect who had converted the mansion. On the ground floor there were
two rooms, one on either side of the square hall. One was the office,
the other was the Headmaster’s study. On the floor above was a
drawing-room for the Headmaster’s entertaining, a very small
dining-room, a bachelor bedroom and bath. One floor higher still was a
little suite of three rooms for the use, presumably, of any family the
Headmaster might want to tuck away up there. Until my arrival it had
been deserted. Now I lived there, for the most part of the time alone.
There was no housekeeping. We came under school management. The school
servants kept the house clean. We fed in hall with the boys during the
day, and in the evenings our meal was sent up from the school kitchens
and served with due ceremony by the head steward. Victor had always
lived like that and had seemed horrified when, early in the present
term, I had suggested that I might install a small kitchen of my own. I
suppose I ought to have put my foot down over some of these points, but
when one is fighting against the conviction that one has made a really
big mistake, one is apt to be unduly cautious about making small ones,
so I had concentrated on trying to make a go of things, on fitting in
and giving way. It had got me exactly nowhere. I was getting that into
my head at last.

Well, if it was to be settled once and for all, the sooner the better. I
pulled myself together and walked into the study. I did not knock, as I
usually did in case Victor was interviewing somebody. Term was over and
I was in my own house.

But there was no one at the big desk which spread so importantly over
the far half of the carpet. The tall windows draped with formal curtains
were closed. The room was airless and deserted. It was anticlimax and I
was turning to go out again when a smothered gasp from the fireplace on
my left brought me wheeling round towards it.

Mr Seckker was kneeling on the hearthrug, surprised in the very act of
burning something in the empty grate, for a thin blue wand of smoke
still wavered up the chimney as I looked. For a second he stared at me,
dismay on his prim, wrinkled face, but he recovered himself at once and
hopped up with quite remarkable agility to stand smiling at me with all
his wonted courtliness, although he took care, I noticed, to step
between me and the fireplace.

‘Oh, it’s you, Mrs Lane,’ he said easily. ‘I thought for a moment it was
the Headmaster returning. I don’t know that I shall wait for him after
all. I can come up tomorrow.’

‘Is Victor out?’ I said in surprise. ‘I’ve just come back from the town.
I didn’t meet him.’

‘Then he must have gone the other way, musn’t he?’ he said, twinkling at
me. ‘I was in my classroom and I saw him drive out of the gates—when
was that? Let me see, half an hour ago perhaps. I came in here to bring
him some books and settled down to wait with my pipe. I flicked a match
into the grate and I’m afraid I set light to some litter which was
there. I was just seeing it was all right when you came in.’

He made the unnecessary explanation with bland charm and even waved a
palpably empty pipe at me by way of corroboration. I nodded absently.
Whatever he was doing, it had nothing to do with me. I was thinking of
Victor.

‘You don’t know where he’s gone, do you?’ I said. ‘I mean, he’ll be in
to lunch, won’t he?’

‘I really don’t know.’ He looked astounded at my ignorance and faintly
disapproving. I realized that Mr Seckker’s sister knew to the hour and
second when her brother would be in to a meal. ‘I’ve not seen him myself
this morning. He was closeted in here with Rorke when I arrived and so I
went up to my classroom. Then I saw him go out. Dear me, it’s past
twelve. I must get back.’

He glanced behind him at the fireplace with misleading casualness and,
seeing, no doubt, that all was well, came across the room to me. As he
passed I suddenly remembered.

‘Oh yes,’ I said, ‘Mr Rorke. I suppose he’ll be all right?’

‘All right?’ He stopped in his tracks and stared at me with sudden
sternness. ‘What do you mean by that?’

I told him of my encounter in the stable yard and as he listened I got
the impression that he was relieved rather than scandalized.

‘Wet, was he?’ he said, laughing a little in a dour elderly way. ‘Oh
yes, he’ll be all right, silly fellow. Don’t give him another thought,
Mrs Lane. Good morning.’ Half-way across the hall he glanced back.
‘Please don’t bother the Headmaster with any message from me. I may or
may not drop in tomorrow. The matter I was going to mention to him is of
no importance.’ Without actually saying so he made me realize that it
was a definite request and I said, ‘I won’t then.’

He still hesitated and finally added, with a diffidence which was quite
charming: ‘Unless you feel you ought, I don’t think I should bother him
about Rorke either. He’s a silly young juggins, but it’s not strictly
term time, although he was on school premises . . .’

‘Of course,’ I said. ‘I shouldn’t dream of mentioning it to him.’

‘Ah.’ It was a satisfied little sound. He gave me a nod which was almost
a bow, and pattered off, letting himself quietly out of the house and
closing the door behind him. I started upstairs, the little brindled
shadow which was Izzy close at my heels, and smiled at his description
of Rorke, who must have been close on the, to me, impossible age of
forty if I was any judge at all. The sudden vista of years all to be
spent in the aridity of Buchanan House took me by surprise, and to my
dismay I felt if not a scream at least a protesting squeak rising up in
my throat. I blushed at myself. Things were getting me down farther than
I had supposed. I realized this afresh when Izzy’s low growl behind me
made me start so violently that I almost stepped on him.

‘What is it, boy?’ I said, and at the same moment I heard from above us
the clatter of footsteps on the parquet of the dining-room, and the
school housekeeper, Miss Richardson, came bustling out on to the
landing.

‘Oh, there you are, Mrs Lane,’ she said. ‘I’m so glad to have caught
you. I thought I should have to go without saying good-bye, and I did
want to tell you what I’ve arranged.’

I stared at her. In all my time at the school I don’t suppose we had
exchanged half a dozen words. In the very beginning Victor had made it
clear to me that one of the dangers of my position at the school was
that the domestic staff, who were the employees of the governors, might
suspect me of intrusion, with the result, of course, that I had avoided
any contact with them. I’m afraid I had hardly dared recognize this
plump middle-aged woman, with her strings of domestic science diplomas,
as an ordinary human being. I had passed her occasionally in the
grounds, looking very aloof in her black skirt and twin set, and we had
shown our teeth at each other in polite mirthless smiles. Now I scarcely
recognized her in a pale grey linen suit with a white flower on her
lapel and a smart white straw set pertly on her glossy dark hair. She
had a warm voice, I noticed for the first time, and, now that she was in
holiday mood, real gaiety in her smile.

‘I couldn’t find you anywhere this morning, and the Headmaster was
engaged, so I couldn’t ask when you were going off,’ she rattled on. ‘I
was a bit worried, but I’ve done what I think will suit you. Williams
will be caretaking all through the holiday . . .’

‘That’s the porter.’

She looked at me as if I were demented. ‘Yes, you know, the man at the
lodge. He’ll be there all the vacation and he’ll have the keys. Mrs
Williams is always very anxious to help, and if you should come back at
any time you can always send her a card and she’ll get the place aired
and have a meal for you. But I was really worrying about the next day or
so before you go. I’ve fixed up for Mrs Veal, who is the best of our
charwomen, to come in tomorrow morning to see what you need. I’ve had
some cold lunch laid here now, and if you’ll just leave everything
she’ll see to it . . .’

Her voice trailed away and died before the expression on my face, which
I suppose was utterly blank.

‘You did _know_, I suppose?’ she demanded abruptly.

It was one of those purely feminine questions which seem to have ‘I
thought so’ lingering somewhere in their depths, and it pulled me
together at once.

‘If you mean, had I realized that the whole of the staff was going on
holiday today, I’m afraid I hadn’t,’ I said, trying to sound easy and
casual, as if minor items of this kind meant nothing to me. ‘I was
thinking of last vacation.’

‘Oh but that was Easter, the short vac. We don’t bother to disrupt the
working arrangements for three weeks or so. But this is a long holiday,
nearly nine weeks.’

‘Yes, yes, of course,’ I said hurriedly. ‘Well, thank you tremendously.
I’ll look out for Mrs Veal and . . .’

‘How long to you expect to stay here, Mrs Lane?’ She was watching me
with black-fringed candid eyes.

‘I—I’m not sure at the moment.’

She did not seem to hear me but went on as though she had made up her
mind to say something and was going through with it at all costs.

‘I asked because some weeks ago when I mentioned the holidays to the
Headmaster he told me that he would be going off to the Continent almost
immediately the term ended, and that you would probably leave at the
same time to stay with friends in London. That’s why I haven’t consulted
you before. Do believe me, Mrs Lane, it wasn’t until last night, when I
realized that you hadn’t made any arrangements yet—about travelling, I
mean—that I began to worry how you’d get on. This morning I tried to
find you, but when I discovered I’d missed you I went ahead and made the
best arrangements I could.’

‘It was very kind of you,’ I said, and meant it.

‘Not at all. I feel terrible about it.’ She gave up all pretences and
was appealing to me for my confidence. ‘I wish I’d known you weren’t
going off somewhere at once. I’d have done anything, I would really. I’d
have stayed myself.’

‘Don’t be silly,’ I said cheerfully. ‘You go and catch your train and
have a wonderful time. Where are you going?’

‘Devon,’ she said, and made it sound like a prayer. Then she caught my
eye and actually blushed, so that I got a glimpse of fuchsia hedges and
bowls of clotted cream and someone waiting for her, no doubt.

She glanced at her watch and fled, but at the bottom of the stairs she
looked back.

‘You’ll have to order some milk,’ she called up to me. ‘Mrs Veal will
get it if you tell her how much you want. Good-bye.’

The door closed behind her and the house became so quiet that even the
warm sunlight seemed eerie. I had never known a place to feel quite so
empty. I sat down on the top step of the stairs because I happened to be
standing there, and Izzy sat beside me. My first thought was that it
wasn’t true. ‘Men don’t behave like that,’ I said aloud. But they do to
their wives, said a voice in my mind. Don’t be silly; you read it every
day in the newspapers. Besides, it’s so like Victor, isn’t it? Just
quietly arranging to get his own way without considering anyone else in
the world. Victor doesn’t get involved in arguments or explanations. He
just fixes up to avoid giving any. Sometimes he goes to considerable
lengths in this direction, getting married for instance. By all accounts
that must have avoided one father and mother of an argument.

I felt myself growing very hot and presently I got up slowly and mounted
the stairs to my own rooms. Sitting before my dressing-table, I looked
dispassionately at the pale, thin-faced creature in the glass until I
awoke a gleam of courage in her eyes. After a while we even laughed at
each other.

‘Well, he’ll be in for lunch in a minute and this is the one argument he
isn’t going to avoid, my dear,’ I said. ‘I’d go and get a
rolling-pin—if we had a kitchen.’

That was just before one o’clock. By a quarter past three it had become
evident that wherever Victor was lunching it wasn’t at home. He’d
side-stepped again, very neatly, very completely. It was typical.

Izzy and I had some of the cold food which Miss Richardson had so kindly
left for us, and afterwards I stacked the two plates and left them on
the minute sideboard and tidied the table. There was nowhere to wash up
unless one used the bathroom.

By this time I had begun to hate myself and the house even more, so I
thought I’d walk it off. Just round the school the fields were dull and
highly cultivated but about half a mile farther down the road there was
a lane that led to the water meadows which cradled our local river. It
would be cool down there and lonely, I thought, a good place to think
things out and get myself reorientated. Everyone in Tinworth who was not
actually infirm owned a bicycle and I was no exception. I got it out of
the shed next to the stable where Izzy had lived so long and put him in
the basket. He was too big for it and he made the handlebars wobble, but
his legs were rather short for fast running and the main road was very
hard for his pads. He was used to this form of transport, so he sat very
still, his ears flat, and tried, I was certain, to adjust his weight to
the balance. One of the gardeners was sweeping near the back gates and
he swung them open for us. I saw his surprise as we appeared and his
grin as we passed him. Taking advantage of the pause, he pulled a watch
out of his pocket and glanced at it to see how much more he had of the
afternoon. It was an insignificant incident. I don’t know why I noticed
it.

There was very little traffic on the high road and once we entered the
lane we did not see a soul. I rode on until the going became too rough,
and afterwards left the bike in the hedge and walked on to the stile.
Izzy was delighted and showed it in his own sedate way, by taking short
meaningless runs through the lush grass, his head ploughing up and down
through the green as if he were swimming.

It was Andy who, long before in a London park, had pointed out that Izzy
was like a very small old-fashioned railway engine, squat, rusty, and
quite incredibly heavy. I smiled at the recollection and dismissed it
hastily. I was determined to put Andy right out of my mind. He had loved
me and I had jilted him and he had got over it. That was all there was
to that story and to think about it now would be to complicate things
quite unbearably.

‘_I did love you once._’ The line from _Hamlet_ came back unbidden, the
most cruel thing man had ever said to woman, my English mistress had
once remarked in a moment of uncharacteristic self-revelation. A whole
classful of girls had gaped at her, but she had been right. I knew it
now. Andy had said that, almost in as many words, and he’d made it worse
by not even meaning to be unkind. I did not blame him. I was just going
to forget him, that was all.

I wandered on beside the running water and Izzy puffed and grunted
beside me. It was a glorious afternoon, sleepy and golden, and I
discovered that I was being careful to think only of immediate things,
like the moor hen I disturbed or the lark I tried to see high in the
white-flecked blue. It would not do. There was one vital issue I had got
to face and the sooner the better if I was going to have it out with
Victor. Was it to be divorce, or was I going to sit down under this
slow-starvation marriage for the rest of my life?

I lay down on the bank where the turf was short and let my hand dangle
in the water, and Izzy came and sat beside me, panting, until he found
how to get his nose down to lap. Theoretically the thing was perfectly
simple. I had made a hash of getting married and the sensible thing to
do was to cut my losses and clear out and get a job. Any civilized young
woman of the Western Hemisphere surely knew that by this time. Yet now
that I was up against the reality I found there was a remarkable
difference between knowing and doing. It may have been just the failure
I didn’t want to face. Everybody, all my friends, anyone who had ever
known me, knew that I was unreasonably terrified of divorce. What Andy
had said about me was true. Mother’s divorce had coloured my entire
outlook from babyhood, and now, although I saw my foolishness, I also
saw that one couldn’t alter oneself just by knowing one was silly. I
still hoped to cling to the crazy idea that somehow I could make it come
all right. All the same . . . Victor would never alter. That was the
conviction I’d been fighting off for weeks. People don’t alter. They may
with enormous difficulty modify themselves, but they never really
change. I’d got myself married to an overbearing selfish man with a
masterful personality, and unless I got away from him he’d reduce me to
the colourless cipher he needed as a front-of-the-house wife.

But there again . . . was it so easy to _get_ a divorce? This was
England, not one of those countries where a thoroughly unhappy marriage
is considered to be, by and large, fair ground for an appeal. If Victor
did not help, and I did not think he would for a moment, then I might
easily merely provoke a scandal which would ruin his career and leave me
tied to him irrevocably for the rest of my life . . . or his.

Oh, dear God, I thought, it is difficult, too difficult. I put my head
down in the warm grass and shut out everything from my mind but the
sound of the gently lapping water. The sun was warm on my back. Izzy
waddled over and settled his hard little body against my shoulder. The
river sang softly, lipperty-lapperty, lipperty-lapperty. . . .

I woke cold and stiff, and astounded to find it nearly dusk.

Doubtless it was the air, following all the emotional upset, which had
put me out. At any rate, I had slept deeply and dreamlessly for heaven
knows how long and might have stayed there half the night had not Izzy’s
patience given out. He prodded my ear gently until I sat up and stared
about me. Even if one has nothing in the world to do, one feels guilty
at dropping off to sleep unintentionally, and I got up in a fine flurry
and set off back to the stile and the bicycle with as much haste as if I
had a nurseryful of youngsters to feed. I had no idea what the time was
but when we reached the high road one of the cars which passed us had
its sidelights on.

I had guessed the back gates of the school would be closed, but the big
main ones in front were locked also and I had to rouse Williams in his
lodge beside them to get in. He was astonished to see me, and
apologetic.

‘I thought we was on our own, me and the missis,’ he said, his little
bright eyes peering at me from out of a mass of wrinkles. ‘Thought you’d
all gorn. The Guv’nor’s out, you know. Leastways, his car ain’t in the
garridge because I’ve been to look. ’E’s not back.’

There was something in his manner, or else I imagined it, which was
infuriatingly knowing. It seemed to epitomize the whole of Tinworth’s
attitude towards me, a sort of pitying condescension, an inquisitive
commiseration. It got under my skin.

‘I didn’t suppose he would be,’ I said, and was shocked by something odd
in my own tone. I had tried to sound casual and had changed it at the
last moment for authority. Williams seemed interested.

‘Shall I leave the gates, then?’

I hesitated and he stood waiting.

‘What d’ye think?’ he inquired at last, and added ‘ma’am’ as an
afterthought.

‘Yes, leave them open,’ I said. ‘It won’t do any harm. Good night.’

‘Good night, m’m,’ I heard him muttering as he bent down to fix the
gate-stop. ‘Harm?’ he was saying. ‘Harm?’

The house was dark and quiet as a grave. No one had been in. Everything
was just as I had left it. I took Izzy upstairs with me. This was too
bad of Victor altogether. I assumed he was punishing me for even daring
to try to stand up to him on the evening before. The situation was
crazy. I realized it now that I’d faced the problem and slept on it.

Meanwhile Izzy had begun to utter that distinctive Scotty mew which is
at once the most apologetic and yet the most demanding sound in the
world.

‘Well,’ I said, ‘there’s the remains of lunch, chum. We’ll go into
housekeeping tomorrow when we see what the form is.’

Dinner was on the drab side and Izzy enjoyed it more than I did. There
was nothing but tepid water out of the bathroom tap to drink, and I
discovered that the main boilers from which we were supplied were out
and there was no hot water. Finally I had a brain wave and went down to
the secretary’s room. There I discovered what I expected. Tucked away in
a cupboard was a small tin kettle and a half-full packet of tea. There
was sugar there and a cup, but no milk, and a gas ring in the fireplace.
I made tea.

It was while I was drinking the abominable stuff, and fighting the
unreal atmosphere of the empty school buildings crowding in all round
me, that it occurred to me that if Victor had been an ordinary human
being he would at least have left me a message. If he had it would have
been a note. He was a man of notes and the whole school seemed to copy
him. At Buchanan House no one ever seemed to use a phone or send a
verbal message. If they were going to be late for dinner, or the team
had won a match, or a leak had been discovered in a bathroom, someone
sat down and wrote someone else a little note about it. There was no
sign of an envelope upstairs but it occurred to me that he might have
left one for me in his study and I went in there to see. There was
nothing on the mantelshelf and I went over to the desk and crossed round
behind the big chair. There were no loose papers, no miscellany, and
certainly no note propped for me to find. Everything was meticulously
tidy, as if its owner had cleared up before he left. The only sign of
use was the blotter, well inked over because Victor was careful over
small matters like stationery and did not have it changed until he had
to.

I glanced at it casually and suddenly stood transfixed, my heart jolting
on a long and painful beat.

One of my minor accomplishments is that I can read what is called
‘mirror writing’ quite easily. I had been the overworked editor of a
school magazine which had been produced on one of those home-made jelly
duplicators, and I had learned the trick to facilitate corrections. Now,
as I stood staring at the blotter, a message in Victor’s precise
handwriting stood out from the rest with startling vividness.

‘Thursday the 27th then, my darling. Until . . . rest assu . . . love
you . . . difficult . . . know that. Always, V.’

I glanced up from the message to the desk calendar, which was neatly
kept to date: ‘Thursday, July’ and underneath a huge red ‘27’.

I ought to have been furious, sick, outraged. The conventional streak in
me which Andy had pointed out was aware of all the right reactions, but
I felt none of them. I felt freed.

I suppose it was the generations of proud law-abiding religious women
behind me whose legacies were deep in me, forming my reactions despite
any fancy thinking which I might be doing on my own account, who
suddenly let up and washed their hands of Victor. I realized I could go.
I was absolved. I could depart and not look back . . . but not untidily.
That was the last of the iron rules which must be obeyed. I could go
free but I must not take revenge. I must not ruin him and above all I
must not foul my own nest. He and I must come to understand one another
and the parting must be arranged without fuss.

I took the sheet of blotting-paper out of the pad and rolled it
carefully into a cylinder.

‘Come on,’ I said to Izzy, ‘we can go from here, old boy. But we must
tell him first.’

It was about half after midnight, I think, when I decided to try out the
home perm outfit on the side pieces of my hair. I had packed most of my
clothes and I had very few other possessions because I’d been living
rather as if I were in a hotel. Wherever I was going, I shouldn’t have
much luggage to bother about. I was not sleepy and I was not worried. At
last I knew what I had to tell Victor, and I knew I had to do it the
moment he came in. I should not look very imposing with my hair in
curlers and he’d probably be scandalized by them, but that didn’t matter
any more. I had plenty of time and I wanted to get it done.

It was quite a business because of the hot water. Izzy and I trotted up
and down several times with our kettle, and the directions on the flimsy
folder inside the perm packet were long and complicated. All the same,
we conquered, and by the time I’d got to ‘_Operation 8: rinse thoroughly
but do not unwind_’ the clock on my bedside table said two-fifteen.

I was in the bathroom with my head tied up like a pudding when Izzy
began to growl. It was his warning noise, very deep and soft in the back
of his throat, and it sent the blood tingling into the nerves of my face
and back. I hurried into the bedroom to find him stiff-legged in the
middle of the floor, his ears coming off the top of his head, every hair
quivering as he faced the open window. Someone was in the courtyard, and
since he had not entered presumably it was not Victor. I stood listening
and presently I heard an odd splattering sound high up under the window.
Izzy growled and started back as a pebble sailed in and rolled on the
carpet near him.

I went over at once and put my head out, towel and all.

‘What is it?’ I demanded.

‘Mrs Lane . . . ?’ It was Maureen Jackson’s voice and I could just see
her in the dusk. She was wrapped in something which I took to be an
evening cloak. There was another shadow in the darkness behind her. I
could hardly make it out at all and I assumed it was her dancing
partner. I drew back at once. My towel was slipping and I was coy about
the curlers.

‘Yes,’ I said from just inside the room, ‘what on earth is it?’

‘Could—could I possibly speak to the Headmaster?’ Her voice was most
unnatural and it came to me that she was suppressing giggles. This was
most unlike her, of course, but then the hour was not exactly usual. I
could hear the engine of a sports car throbbing somewhere in the
stillness and I decided that they were on their way home from a party
where they had got a little high. Perhaps there had been a lot of gossip
about us. Perhaps Victor had been seen with someone. Perhaps Maureen had
been dared to find out if I knew.

‘Is he in?’

Something in the question raised a devil in me that I did not know that
I possessed. I made a sudden irritable movement and did the silliest
thing I have ever done in my life.

‘Yes, of course he is,’ I said firmly, ‘fast asleep, and I shouldn’t
dream of waking him. Whatever it is must wait till tomorrow. Good
night.’

Then I closed the window.

It was a mad thing to do, criminally idiotic. At the time I felt a vague
premonition about it, but I did not dream then just how insane it was
going to prove to be, for it was not until the following afternoon that
Victor’s body was discovered and by then he had been dead between twelve
and twenty-four hours, so the police doctor said.


                                PART TWO

The day began quietly enough.

By half past four in the morning I had still had no sleep, although I
had been lying on my bed for some time. Izzy was restless too, I
noticed, as he lay on the rug before the dressing-table. His ears were
pricked forward and he whimpered a little every time the school clock
struck the quarter hour.

My wretched curlers were abominably uncomfortable and I was tempted to
take them out, but I am one of those people who read instructions very
carefully and in this case they were specific that five hours was the
drying time. I bore the discomfort grimly. _Il faut souffrir pour être
belle_, said the proverb. I didn’t know if I was going to look
particularly _belle_, but at any rate I thought I’d be a bit better. I
had come to hate my role of the forlorn wife, and I was thankful I’d
made a start at least to stop looking like one.

At five I got up and made myself another pot of the milkless tea. While
I was drinking it dawn broke, and rather guiltily I took another look at
the sheet of blotting-paper I’d brought upstairs. I wanted to see if I
could find out when the revealing message had been written. But all the
other fragments were meaningless to me, and there seemed nothing to show
how long the paper had been in use. I rolled it up again and put it in
the long bottom drawer of the chest which I had emptied when I packed.

By this time I had decided where Victor was. I had made up my mind that
he had driven to London to meet someone who had probably gone up there
from Tinworth by train. I felt fairly certain he had intended to come
home during the night but had changed his mind and stayed. I thought he
had not telephoned because he had not wanted to bother to make excuses.
He knew that I would put up with it, or had decided that it did not
matter if I did not.

The more I thought about it the more obvious all this appeared. The tone
of the note had suggested an old love affair, which argued that the
woman, whoever she was, probably was one of the local ladies who had
caused the scandal last winter. It was because of that scandal that I
thought they wouldn’t risk spending an evening together nearer than the
city, and I guessed he had not kept me informed because he knew that I
would never fly into a panic and start telephoning round the town. He
had trained me never to do that. There had been a most unfortunate
incident a few weeks after our marriage when Victor had gone over to
Tortham College for an evening conference. The meeting had gone on much
longer than anyone had expected and he had accepted a bed from one of
the house-masters without letting me know. I had got frightened that he
might have had an accident with the car and had telephoned the Head’s
house at one in the morning. My call had caused no end of fuss in that
fortress of academic conventionalism, and the savagery and the sarcasm
of the reprimand I had received from Victor still brought the colour to
my face whenever I remembered it. It had not been very fair, of course,
but then that had been one of the lessons which had taught me not to
expect ordinary fair behaviour from the man I had married.

I crawled back into my bed and lay there wondering who the woman was. I
was ashamed of myself for not feeling more bitter about her. All my
upbringing had taught that a good wife ought to know by some sort of
magical divination the woman whom her husband prefers, but my
intelligence warned me that this was moonshine. Victor had always kept
me at arm’s length. I did not know him. I did not know his taste, even.

I thought I had only closed my eyes for an instant, but when I opened
them again the sun was pouring in through the window, Izzy was barking
like a lunatic, and standing at the end of my bed was a little old woman
in a bright overall and a shabby black hat which boasted a bunch of
tousled but valiant feathers in it. She was watching me with a strange
intensity, her eyes very wide open and her thin nose twitching like
Izzy’s own.

‘’E’s gorn,’ she said with dramatic suddenness. ‘’Is bed ain’t slep’ in.
Did you know?’

I lay looking at her stupidly for a moment while all the facts slowly
reassembled themselves in my mind, and I remembered the charwoman Miss
Richardson had promised to send me.

‘You’re Mrs Veal,’ I said at last.

‘That’s right.’ Her unnerving gaze never left my face. ‘Come to do for
yer. ’Aven’t slep’, ’ave yer?’

‘Not very well,’ I admitted, struggling up into a sitting position and
wondering what on earth had happened to my head that it should feel as
if it had been scalped. ‘What’s the time? Nine?’ I stared at the clock
on the bedside table with unfocusing eyes. ‘How awful. I’m so sorry.’

‘Don’t you move.’ In Mrs Veal’s dramatic tones, which I had not yet
learned were habitual with her, the words were a command. ‘Stay where
you are. You ’aven’t slep’ a wink, you ’aven’t. I saw it as soon as I
come in. Lie there until I get you a cupper-tea, and particularly don’t
look at yerself in the glass. It’ll give yer a turn. You look like a
pore young corp. Don’t you worry about nothing. I’ve got milk in me bag
_and_ a small brown loaf. “There won’t be nothing there,” Miss
Richardson said,’ she said, ‘and so I come prepared.’ She paused for
breath and gave me another searching stare. ‘You _can’t_ ’ave slep’. I
saw my sister’s youngest when the undertaker had done with ’er and she
looked more alive than you do now, and that’s the truth. Tossin’ and
turnin’ all night, that’s what you must ’ave been. Lie where you are
until I come back.’

She scuttled out as suddenly as she had arrived and I pulled myself
wearily out of bed and peered fearfully in the looking-glass. The sight
was almost reassuring. It was still me. I looked a bit of a mess and my
eyes were smudgy and hollow, but I was recognizable. I began to pull out
the curlers which had made my head ache, and was gratified to see a
gentle but unmistakable wave. I put a comb through it gingerly, but it
persisted and there was no sign of the frizzing I had feared. I was
still examining my handiwork when the door opened unceremoniously.

‘There’s no kitchen in this ’ouse.’ Sheer astonishment seemed to have
robbed Mrs Veal of her histrionic powers. She spoke almost mildly.

‘No,’ I said, and added almost idiotically, ‘I know.’

‘_No kitchen!_’

‘Well,’ I began apologetically, ‘you see, in the ordinary way the school
. . .’

‘Oh yers, I daresay.’ She swept my explanation aside with magnificent
contempt. ‘The school looks after yer like a mother, I don’t doubt, but
_no kitchen_ . . . and they call it a gentleman’s residence. Well, I
never did, I _never_ did! I didn’t really. I’ll go straight to Mrs
Williams and see what she can provide and no one shall stop me.’

She was gone again with the speed of a bird, only to put her head in a
moment later.

‘No master in ’is bed and no kitchen,’ she remarked devastatingly.
‘Whatever next?’

She went out again and I hurried after her and called to her down the
stairs. It had occurred to me that if she was going into the Williamses
I ought to make some sort of excuse for Victor’s absence, since I’d
asked the porter to leave the gate for him.

‘It’ll only be breakfast for one, Mrs Veal,’ I said, ‘and I shan’t want
anything much. The Headmaster rang up late last night. He’s been
detained in London.’

She paused without looking round. I could see her little figure
foreshortened on the stairs below me. Presently she turned and peered
up.

‘What yer going to do for ’is dinner?’

‘What? Oh, I’ll think of something. We’ll probably go into the town. I
don’t know when he’s coming home, you see. I expect he’ll ring again.’

‘I see.’ She sounded very dubious. ‘Don’t know when ’e’s coming.’ She
nodded as if it was a lesson she had learned and I suddenly realized
that she must have had a word or so with the Williamses already. I went
back to my bedroom and began to dress. I felt trapped again, back in the
atmosphere of gossip and commiseration. I was very conscious of being a
bad liar, too, and I was furious with Victor for putting me in a
position when these white lies seemed so necessary.

I was in the little dining-room when Mrs Veal returned. She came
steaming up the stairs with a laden tray which she placed proudly on the
table before me.

‘She done the lot, Mrs Williams did. Wouldn’t even look at me brown
loaf. Said she was only too pleased,’ she announced breathlessly as she
prepared to whip off the white napkin with which the offering was
covered. ‘She’s a real good woman, a real good woman, in spite of ’er
being under the doctor with ’er legs. Nothink is too much trouble. Is it
yer birthday?’

The sudden question bewildered me. ‘Birthday?’

‘Yes, well, as I said, you never said nothink to me about it, but we
wondered if it was yer birthday because of the present, you see.’ She
removed the covering and displayed a pyramid of stiff white florist’s
paper amid the breakfast things. ‘The doctor brought it,’ she rattled
on, ‘the young one with the eyes. You know. ’E’s doing the job while the
old gentleman, ’oo is a bit past it, is on ’is ’olidays. He never took
an ’oliday before ’e was on the Government, so it shows yer, don’t it?’

I laughed. She was doing me good. She was what I needed, a human voice.
It occurred to me that if I’d met her before my ignorance of the real
and inner life of Tinworth would not be nearly so abysmal. All the same
I was shaken by the flowers. It wasn’t like Andy to do anything so
graceful. I took off the wrappings and smiled. It was a little clump of
speckled blue flowers in a small ornamental bowl. I’d seen some like it
in the good florist’s next the cinema. It was a line they were selling
that month and it looked like Andy, charming and unpretentious and
somehow solid. The envelope which the florist provided to hold the card
was stuck down and I tore it open unsuspecting. The message was
scribbled in the handwriting I had once known so very well.

_Clearing out today. Fixed it with the local man. All the best, Andy._

I sat staring at it until I became aware that the colour was pouring up
my neck and into my face. It was dismay, and yet I had not once
permitted myself to hope that our good-byes had not been final. How
strange it was, I thought suddenly, that one’s body seems to go on
living a life of its own, feeling emotions and reacting to them however
strictly one makes one’s mind behave.

I glanced up to find Mrs Veal watching me with unveiled curiosity. There
was nothing of the ghoul about her. She was perfectly friendly and quite
clearly on my side, but she liked to know what was going on.

‘It’s suits yer; that bit o’ colour in yer face,’ she remarked
disconcertingly. ‘Now you’ve got it you look better-looking, more like
you did when you first come. It’s the bit of a curl, I suppose. It’s
wonderful what it does for yer. That young doctor’s goin’ away.’

‘Oh, is he?’ I said in an ineffectual attempt to sound casual.

‘So Mrs Williams told me. She’s ever so sorry. ’E come round early to
take a last look at ’er legs. Nice of ’im, wasn’t it? Some wouldn’t,
that they wouldn’t, not today. ’E said ’e was off. Couldn’t stick it, ’e
said. Known ’im long, ’ave yer?’

It was one of those direct questions which cannot be sidetracked, so I
said we were both on the same hospital staff before I was married.

‘Oh, I see.’ It was obvious that she did, too, the whole story. I could
see it in the wisdom of her old grey eyes. ‘Oh well,’ she said, giving
me a friendly little grimace, ‘it’s just as well, ain’t it? I mean
people are always ready to talk in a place like this. You mayn’t believe
it but you’d be surprised. It’s not like London. Make up anything, they
will, _and_ say it. So it’s just as well ’e’s gorn. Per’aps ’e saw it
’isself. Nice of ’im to send the flowers, wasn’t it? I’ll put ’em on the
side. There, don’t they look pretty?’

‘Very,’ I agreed faintly. ‘I—er, I don’t know what they are, do you?’

‘Nemo-phila,’ said the amazing woman calmly. ‘They grow a lot of ’em
round ’ere, for seed. They mean “_may success crown your wishes_”.
That’s surprised yer, ain’t it?’

‘It staggers me.’

She laughed. ‘I used to work in a card factory when I was a girl.
Birthday cards we used to make, very elaborate. We were give the cards,
see, with the motters and a pictcher on ’em, and then we ’ad to stick on
the right pressed flower. There was lots of ’em. “_Thoughts I bring
you_”—that was pansies, and oh, I don’t know what else. Come on, drink
yer coffee. So there you are, “_success crown your wishes_”, that’s what
’e sent you.’ She hesitated, honesty getting the better of her
romanticism. ‘I don’t really suppose ’e knew.’

‘Perhaps not.’

‘Still it was very nice of ’im. You’ll remember ’im gratefully.’

‘I shall, very.’

I thought she was going to leave me at last but she still hovered.

‘Oh, and there’s this,’ she said, planking a crumpled piece of paper on
the cloth before me. ‘Williams give me this to bring over. If the master
wasn’t ’ere, ’e said, perhaps you’d look after it. It’s the receipt for
the luggage, see?’

‘The . . . ?’ I checked my exclamation and took up the paper. It was not
easy to decipher. My hand seemed to be shaking so much that I could
hardly see it. Mrs Veal explained. Her fund of information seemed to be
inexhaustible.

‘It’s the master’s climbing-luggage, the ’eavy stuff that’s kep’ in the
locker room. It’s gorn to Switzerland to be ready for ’im. It’s sent
every year. Williams always sees to it. ’E told Williams to get it off
for ’im and Williams did, yesterday.’

‘When was Williams told?’ For the life of me I could not keep the
revealing sharpness out of my voice.

‘Oh, I don’t know, dear, I mean madam. Sometime in the term, I expec’.
Didn’t the master tell yer?’

‘I expect he forgot.’

‘Yers, well, they are forgetful, aren’t they, men are. Can’t ’elp
themselves. So bloomin’ conceited they don’t know if they’re goin’ or
comin’ ’alf the time. Still, it’ll be a weight off your mind, won’t it,
to know it’s safely sent? You’re goin’ with ’im this time, are yer? When
you settin’ off?’

‘Soon. I’m not quite sure, exactly.’

She clicked her tongue against her teeth with tolerant commiseration.
‘Keep us on the ’op, don’t they, all the time? Well, I’ll get on.’ She
went out at last and left me with the receipt. I folded it carefully and
tucked it into the little Chinese vase on the mantelshelf. The whole
incident had alarmed me. If Victor had made this arrangement without
telling me, what others might he have fixed? For one wild moment it went
through my mind he might have just gone off on his trip already, calling
in somewhere on the way to see the lady of the note. Perhaps I should
get a letter sometime during the day telling me what he’d decided and
enclosing a little money for me to carry on with. It seemed incredible,
but only because I envisaged it happening to _me_. I had heard of
husbands who behaved like that, and what was worse, I knew that if I
simply related the fact to some disinterested person—a lawyer for
instance—it was by no means certain that he would be sympathetic. How
was he to know that it was not merely some phase in a private sex war
between us? There would be only my word for it. At that moment I could
see, as never before, that the way Victor treated me was my business,
and the only person on earth who could do anything about it was myself.

If Victor had behaved like this I’d have to go after him. I went into
his room and tried to discover which of his clothes were missing. A more
experienced wife would have thought of this before, of course, but once
again I was at a disadvantage. Victor’s personal affairs had been under
control for years before I had appeared on the scene. There was a sort
of resident batman, a school valet, who had made it part of his work to
look after Victor’s clothes and to attend to his mending and laundry, so
I had never been permitted to interfere. The man came in every so often,
and must now have gone off on holiday with everyone else. I went through
the wardrobe and chest, but apart from the fact that I recognized some
of the items they might have belonged to a stranger. I simply couldn’t
tell if a modest holiday outfit had been packed and taken away. The bed
was made up with clean sheets and there were no soiled pyjamas about,
but on the other hand there seemed a good stock of clean pairs in the
drawer. The bathroom was more revealing. His shaving things were there
in the toilet cupboard. I realized he might well possess a small
travelling outfit, but I had never seen one and I felt mildly comforted.
I thought perhaps after all he intended to come back and explain before
going abroad. He wasn’t going to behave quite so disgustingly. All the
same, it was not conclusive evidence, by any means, and after a while I
got nervy again and went down to his study.

It was just as I’d last seen it, very bare and shiny. The clean sheet of
blotting-paper in the folder on the desk made the gleaming expanse of
mahogany look even more deserted. I opened the drawers tentatively. They
were all very tidy, papers pinned neatly together, letters in spring
clips, folders tidily stacked. The school servants were very good, I
reflected idly. The polish on every wooden surface was perfect. My
finger marks seemed to show wherever I put them. I’d have rubbed them
off after me but I hadn’t a duster, and I recollected that the place was
to be left for a couple of months.

Here again, as in the bedroom, I could tell so little because I knew so
little. We never sat in the study and there were very few occasions when
I had even entered it. It was Victor’s workroom. I had only seen the
desk drawers open half a dozen times. I did not go through the papers; I
could not bear to. The notion of finding a bundle of incriminating
letters from some wretched local girl filled me with such distaste that
I was astonished at myself, and I suddenly realized how lucky I was. I
realized some women must find themselves in just this same position but
with one vital difference. If I had ever loved Victor, then I should
have tasted bitterness. As it was, I was hurt and even outraged, and
what pride I had was suffering badly, but I was not annihilated. It was
my ideals and beliefs and conventions which were crushed, but not the
basic me. He had not touched that because it had never belonged to him.
And then I thought that if I’d loved him this would never have happened
quite like this. I’d have known more about him. We were both to blame. A
marriage without love is not marriage. We were playing at it, Victor and
I. We were not married at all and it had taken me six months to find
out.

I closed the last drawer and stood back. There was only one thing
missing that I remembered seeing there before and that was a revolver.
It was a big army thing in a service holster. It had lain in the back of
the middle drawer and I had seen it there one day in the winter when I
had taken Victor some typing he had asked me to do for him. He had
opened the drawer to get a clip for the sheets and I had seen the gun
and commented on it. He told me that he kept it as a souvenir of the
war, and that he had a licence for it, and I said that with so many
children about it was dangerous and that he ought to keep it in the
safe. Now that it had gone I assumed that he had agreed with me, and I
was glad to have had some little influence over him, however small.

I looked round the room again but there was nothing left about, not even
a newspaper. The only thing in the least untidy was the charred sheet in
the empty grate, a single oblong, quite large. I only noticed it idly
and I had no time to consider it or the odd little incident which had
put it there, for just then the telephone bell sounded from the deserted
secretary’s room just across the hall. I caught my breath. This was it.
Now I should hear some sort of explanation and I knew I must take myself
in hand and be as firm and ruthless as he.

But when I took up the receiver it was not Victor but a much slower,
deeper voice which greeted me. I must have been in hypersensitive mood
that morning, for although it was the first time that ever I heard it,
yet it made me vaguely uneasy from the start. I can only say it sounded
friendly but sly, like an uncle asking trick questions.

‘Would that be Buchanan House? I wonder if I could speak to the
Headmaster, Mr Lane. It’s the police here as a matter of fact.
Superintendent South. Just put me through to him, will you?’

‘I’m sorry,’ I said, ‘he’s out.’

‘Oh. And when are you expecting him back?’

‘I’m afraid I don’t know.’

‘I see.’ The avuncular voice sounded dubious. ‘Would that be Mrs Lane by
any chance?’

‘Yes. Can I help you?’

‘Well, I don’t know, Mrs Lane. It’s a little difficult. It’s an enquiry
from the Metropolitan Police, Northern Division, about a John O’Farrell
Rorke.’

‘Oh dear,’ I said involuntarily.

‘Pardon?’

‘Nothing. What’s happened to him?’

‘Well, he seems to have been involved in an accident and quite a nasty
one. He’s in the Watling Street Hospital with multiple injuries, but he
seems to have been inebriated at the time and the driver of the bus
which ran him down has got a story which has got to be confirmed.
Meanwhile, the police want details of any relatives he may have. He’s
unconscious and the only address they have is the school’s. They got
that from a couple of envelopes in his pocket.’

‘I’m terribly sorry, and I don’t see how I can help,’ I began. ‘I don’t
know anything about Mr Rorke’s home life, but I’ll tell my husband to
ring you the moment he comes in. Meanwhile, I wonder if you’d like to
ring his secretary? She might know something.’

There was silence for a moment and then he said, ‘Would that be Miss
Maureen Jackson?’

‘Yes. She knows . . .’

He cut me short. ‘As a matter of fact, Mrs Lane, I’ve been on to her
already. I know her quite well, d’you see? She and her family are old
friends of mine. I thought of her at once and I rang her because I
wasn’t sure if the Headmaster had gone off on his holiday or not, and I
thought it would save time.’ He laughed apologetically, but making it
quite clear to me that he was as parochial and gossipy as anyone else in
the town. He added shamelessly. ‘We have to save time, you know, Mrs
Lane. Maureen, that is Miss Jackson—she’s in bed with a chill, by the
way—told me that Mr Lane was at home last night so I thought I’d catch
him.’

I hesitated. I nearly told him that I hadn’t seen Victor for twenty-four
hours and that I’d lied to Maureen because she had irritated me. It
would have been an embarrassing confession but I have an ingrained
respect for the police and I am fairly certain I would have done it if I
hadn’t realized that he was on neighbourly terms with the Jacksons and
guessed the sort of chatter which must inevitably have followed. As it
was, I simply said good-bye.

‘I’ll tell him to ring you as soon as he comes in,’ I finished.

He was not satisfied. ‘Do you know where he’s gone, Mrs Lane? I’d like
to get hold of him.’

‘No, I’m afraid I don’t.’

‘Did he take his car?’

‘Yes.’

‘And he didn’t leave any message, didn’t say anything at all? Just drove
away?’

‘No.’ It was beginning to sound awful and I groped round for something
to say which would at least convey that we were more or less on speaking
terms. The Superintendent forestalled me.

‘He’ll be in for his lunch anyway, won’t he?’

‘I don’t know. I mean, the school is shut. We’re not eating here. I
think he will be back this morning, but I—I . . .’ I made a great
effort to struggle out of the morass of words and succeeded. ‘I know,’ I
said suddenly, ‘I know who is sure to be able to help you. Do you know
Mr Seckker?’

‘Now that’s an idea, Mrs Lane.’ To my relief the Superintendent gave up
worrying about Victor at once. He sounded approving. ‘Mr Seckker’s a
friend of Mr Rorke’s, is he?’

‘I think so, in a way.’

There was a laugh at the other end of the wire. ‘You’re going to say
that Mr Seckker is a friend of every lame duck.’ The voice had lost its
slyness and sounded merely hearty. ‘You’re right there. So he is. I’ll
get on to him immediately. But, Mrs Lane, do tell your husband the
moment he comes in, because I think there may be a bit of trouble about
this case—or not trouble, exactly, but publicity, and a thing like that
never does a school any good. A word from your husband now might save a
lot of bother later on. See what I mean?’

‘I do,’ I assured him. ‘Thank you very much.’

‘Not at all. We’re all very proud of the school in Tinworth, so it’s in
everybody’s interest to keep everything clean and sweet. So if you do
happen to remember where your husband’s gone this morning, and you can
reach him on the telephone, have a try, see? Good morning.’

‘Good morning,’ I said huskily, and hung up.

I made a note on a pad for Victor and left the sheet propped up on the
hall table where he could not fail to see it. Then I went slowly
upstairs.

I told Mrs Veal that Mr Rorke had been run over. There seemed no harm in
telling her and it kept her from chattering about Victor or, what was
worse still, Andy. She had put the bowl of flowers in the middle of the
dining-room table, I saw, and was prepared to mention it as soon as I
appeared. My news sidetracked her.

‘Run over? In hospital?’ She echoed my words with genuine pity. ‘What a
shame! What a shame after all ’e’s done to keep ’imself you-know-what
after all this time. Never once, never once not in two terms ’as ’e
been—well, we-won’t-mention-it. I was only saying so to Mr Williams.
“It’s a miracle,” I said, “and ’e ought to ’ave a medal for it.” It’s
not easy, no it’s not easy, that it isn’t, to keep yerself you-know-what
once you’ve let it get ’old of you like ’e did. And now runned over as
well. I never!’

She made herself perfectly plain for all her ladylike censorship and I
understood why Mr Rorke had not struck me as the drinker his reputation
had suggested. His sobriety since I had met him had been the result of
effort. I had not realized that.

‘I am afraid the end of term was too much for him,’ I murmured.

She considered me with serious eyes and nodded her head like a Chinese
mandarin.

‘The night before last, that was when it started again. Pore chap! As I
said to Williams, you would ’ave thought ’e’d ’ave waited until ’e got
off school premises, I said, but no, ’e couldn’t. Down the town ’e went
and come back when the pubs closed, swearing, Williams says—well, ’e
couldn’t tell me what ’e said and I’m sure I didn’t want to ’ear.’

‘It’s a great pity,’ I said. ‘I had not realized it was a habit with
him.’

‘It used not to be,’ she assured me earnestly. ‘Not for years it wasn’t.
And then last year it seemed to come over ’im and it was quite bad. Then
there was the noise at the end of the winter term and we all thought
’e’d pulled ’isself together.’

‘Noise?’ I inquired, fascinated.

She dropped her eyes modestly. ‘Some persons say “row”,’ she explained
primly, ‘but it’s not a very nice expression. ’E did somethink and the
’Eadmaster ’eard of it and oh my! we all thought ’e’d ’ave to leave, we
did really. Then it all blowed over and the next term—that was the term
you come—’e was as good as gold and sober as a judge. Did ’im good.’

I felt I ought not to gossip but she seemed to hold the key to the
school and to Tinworth. No one else had been half so informative. In
fact she was the only person who had treated me like a woman. Everyone
else had seemed to think I was a new boy.

‘What did he do?’ I inquired guiltily.

‘I’m not dead certain.’ She lowered her voice conspiratorially. ‘But we
understood at the time that ’e said something to one of the boys—I’m
not sure ’e didn’t write it, which would ’ave been worse—something in
the swearing line, it was. The boy was a bit soft and told ’is parents,
and the parents were a bit soft and told the ’Eadmaster. That’s what we
’eard. There was a to-do! The ’Ead, well, ’e can use ’is tongue, can’t
’e? Sarcastic! Vinegar’s milk when ’e gets goin’, vinegar’s milk, I
say.’

She glanced at me anxiously. ‘Not that I ought to say such a thing to
you, dear—I mean madam. I must get on. Still, I’m sorry that Mr Rorke’s
runned over, I am indeed. People are never the same again after that
’appens, sober or—well, we won’t mention it. No, they’re _not_.’

She began to sweep with great vigour, and since there was nothing I
could do I took Izzy and we went round the school grounds, battered and
deserted in the morning sun. I saw no one at all. No one was at work. No
one came up the drive. No tradesmen. No visitor. No boy.

I sat down on one of the well-worn seats on which generations of
children had carved their names, and waited, watching the gates, but
there was no sign of Victor. Finally I saw Mrs Veal wobble off down the
path on a bone-shaking bicycle. She waved to me and shouted that she’d
‘see me termorrer’ and then she was gone and I was quite alone. I
thought of Rorke and wished there was something I could have done for
him. He seemed to be an unhappy sort of person, probably most unsuited
to be a schoolmaster, and yet someone had said that he taught
brilliantly. Possibly it had been Victor; I couldn’t remember. At any
rate, I was glad that Mr Seckker would be his rescuer on behalf of the
school. I felt pretty certain that if one was in some sort of scrape it
would be nicer to be rescued by Mr Seckker than by Victor.

My thoughts returned to Victor and I rehearsed what I had decided I must
say to him. I could imagine his opening sarcasms as he began to reply,
but I had made up my mind that I must wear all that down. I must stand
up to it and defeat it and get my point into his head. Andy was always
creeping back into my mind but I pushed him out resolutely. As Mrs Veal
had put it so devastatingly, it was just as well he’d gone, and perhaps
he’d seen it himself.

At last I went back to the house, dressed myself for the street with as
much care as possible, and, taking Izzy on the lead, went down the town.
Izzy loathed the lead but he was a fighter, and I seldom dared to take
him into a crowd where every second woman had a dog with her. However,
today I did not feel like parting with him even for a moment.

The Flower Club lecture was at a quarter after two in the Public
Library’s smaller room, and I thought I’d go. It seemed to me that I’d
found out a great deal about Tinworth in the last twenty-four hours, and
I wanted to see all these people who had seemed so unaccountably alien
to me during the few months I had known them, in the light of all this
new information. It was a chance I did not imagine I should have again.
Everyone would be there. The Flower Club was Tinworth’s latest craze. It
was amusing, it was elegant, and it was cheap.

As in most British provincial towns, even the well-to-do ladies of
Tinworth managed their lives on a very rigid budget, and local crafts
and crazes were apt to fade very quickly if the materials required cost
even a little actual money spent. Flowers had the enormous advantage of
being practically free. Everybody grew flowers; the seed fields round
the town were full of them and the garden bloomed like the Sunday hats
of long ago. So the art of floral decoration flourished, and the cult
took on a seriousness which was almost Japanese. In that year the Flower
Club was definitely the thing to join, so I should have plenty of
opportunity of seeing everyone. As I walked down the road I reflected
that I must also eat. This idiotic business of my being taken so utterly
by surprise by the sudden closing down of the school commissariat had
shaken me more than I cared to admit. I am not incapable. I was quite
able to cater and care for myself and a family, and I was eager to do
it. To be caught out like this suddenly, without even a saucepan or a
stove to put it on and no way of telling what, if anything, was required
of me, put me in wrong. I did not like to rush out and buy some
temporary equipment which I should not need for long, because I had very
little money. This was another irritation. I was used to earning a
reasonable living, but I had no inheritance and after six months my
savings were dwindling rapidly.

I bought myself a cheap lunch at the Olde Worlde Teashoppe in the High
Street and managed to smuggle half of it to Izzy, hidden behind me on
the olde worlde settle. We dawdled over it as long as we decently could
and then went over to the Library.

The staircase was cool and quiet after the sun-baked streets and I
assumed I was the first to arrive, but as I crossed the landing I saw
that the doors of the lecture room were open and heard the sibilant
mutter of voices inside. I picked up Izzy and, carrying him under my
arm, walked in.

As I appeared on the threshold there was sudden and absolute silence.

The big shabby room was dim as a church and nearly as cool, with the
same smell of dust and paper faint in the air. The rows of cane chairs
stretching up towards the platform made a vast flimsy barrier between me
and the four women who stood together in the aisle before the front row.
For a full minute they stood quite still, a picture of arrested
movement, their bodies still bent towards each other as if they had been
whispering. But every head was turned, every face blank, every eye
watching me. It only lasted a short time but it was long enough to tell
me that they had been discussing me.

I did not care in the least. At least I felt sure once again that I knew
a great deal more about my own business than anyone else did, and that
was a very good feeling.

I knew all four women slightly. There was the inevitable Mrs Raye,
looking at least half ashamed of herself; Mrs Roundell, the pretty,
pleasant wife of the Town Clerk; Miss Bonwitt, a slightly vague spinster
who was chiefly remarkable for her wonderful garden out on the hill
above the golf course; and Mrs Amy Petty.

Amy Petty was rather better known to me than the others. She was Maureen
Jackson’s widowed elder sister, for one thing, and I had met her calling
at the school several times. She had the Jackson family’s direct manner,
their money, and their clannishness, but her face was like a mean little
hen’s set atop a long flat figure clad in very good but very ugly
country clothes.

I had often thought that for some reason she disliked me, but in the
normal way she was polite enough. Today she astonished me by letting her
eyes flicker away from me without a gleam of recognition, while her
mouth shut in a firm hard button. It was a brief reaction, and by the
time I had found my way round the chairs towards her she was pleasant,
yet there was something new and strange about her which I did not
understand. The idea seemed ridiculous, but it did go through my mind
that she was behaving as if she were afraid of me.

There was something strange about them all. Even Mrs Raye did not seem
sure of herself. It struck me as odd at the time because Tinworth ladies
were so often caught gossiping by the subjects of their scandal that it
was hardly considered a social contretemps any longer. The conversation
began jerkily, with me the only person quite at ease.

Mrs Raye said it was good of me to come. Miss Bonwitt agreed with her
rather too quickly. Mrs Roundell hoped the lecturer wasn’t going to make
flower arrangement too scientific, and Amy Petty asked me bluntly if I
knew when I was going on my holiday. I was prepared for that one by this
time and I said the day was not actually fixed but I expected to be off
by the end of the week. Hester Raye came back into form at that point
and slid her arm through mine.

‘My dear,’ she said, her words tumbling over one another in her usual
rush, ‘the Chief Constable and I were wondering if you and your husband
could come to dinner with us tomorrow night? I do know it’s terribly
short notice and I am so sorry, but we’ve been terribly rushed lately
and I do want to fit you in.’

I opened my mouth, but she forestalled me.

‘Don’t say no until you’ve heard me. We’ve got some quite interesting
people coming—the Wedgwoods, the Rippers, that girl Sally French,
and—oh, by the way, did you know that that nice young doctor of yours
had gone? Left the town, my dear. Fixed it up with young Pettigrew,
wrote Dr Browning, and simply left. I believe it was fearfully sudden,
he made up his mind last night. Dick Pettigrew told me.’ Her eyes peered
brightly into mine. ‘Perhaps you knew about it?’

‘I—I wasn’t surprised. I mean it doesn’t astonish me.’ It was not a
good effort on my part but then she had flustered me, as she always did
with her well-meaning blunderbuss tactics.

‘You’d known him before, had you, Mrs Lane? I thought he was a complete
stranger.’ This came from little Mrs Roundell, trying to be nice in her
fluttering ingenuous way. ‘We all liked him so much. He attended Mother
last week and she adored him. Said he was sweet.’

‘And now he’s gone.’ Hester Raye grimaced. ‘Just our luck in Tinworth.
Well now, Mrs Lane, what about tomorrow? Could you pin Victor down for a
quarter to eight or eight o’clock? Do come.’ She was still holding my
arm and now she shook it slightly and came out with one of her typical
pronouncements. ‘My Reggie is dying to see you both. I told him all
about meeting you yesterday and he was terribly intrigued. He’s been
worried about you too, you know, just as we all have.’

How dared she say it! She took my breath away, although she had long
since ceased to amaze me. I could not believe that the old Chief
Constable, who was a very decent but not particularly sensitive man,
could have grieved much on my account, but I could easily guess what she
had told him.

It was on the tip of my tongue to say that I did not imagine that Victor
and I would ever be going out to dinner together again, but that after
all was a thing that Victor had a right to know before anybody else and
so I merely stalled.

‘It’s very kind of you,’ I said, ‘but I really think you’ll have to
count us out. I don’t think I dare fix up anything definite at the
moment.’

‘Why not?’ This was Amy Petty. She spoke too sharply and too brashly for
even the known Jackson family manner to excuse her. Everybody turned and
stared at her. She looked very odd, her small eyes defiant and bright
spots of colour on her high cheekbones. She said no more but stood her
ground, waiting for me to reply. In the end I had to say something.

‘I’m not at all sure what Victor has fixed,’ I explained. ‘He’s in
London at the moment and I’m not quite sure when he’ll be back.’

It seemed an ordinary social pronouncement to me but its effect was
extraordinary. There was dead silence. Amy Petty remained looking at me
while everybody else glanced awkwardly away.

‘He was home last night. You told my sister so.’ The words were forced
out of Amy. She was being more impolite than even Tinworth permitted and
she realized it, but she appeared to be incapable of controlling
herself. I felt almost sorry for her.

‘Why yes,’ I said glibly, more, I think, with the idea of putting her at
ease than for any other reason, ‘so I did. I thought I’d heard him come
in, you see, but he was detained in London and couldn’t get back. He
telephoned this morning.’

There was a little sigh from them all. Mrs Roundell alone smiled
contentedly, as though to say that she had been right after all, and I
was just going to pass on down the row to find myself a seat when Miss
Bonwitt, who until now had been perfectly silent, said quietly: ‘I am so
glad. It was his car, you see. There is just one place in my garden
where one can look down through the trees and see it in that corner by
the cottage wall.’ She had one of those high-pitched apologetic voices
which seemed to make every pronouncement sound like a spirit message,
inconclusive but faintly ominous.

I swung round on her, startled into frankness. ‘Cottage?’ I demanded.

‘Yes, your cottage. Mr Lane’s little cottage,’ she continued placidly.
‘I daresay you feel it’s quite remote out there on the edge of the golf
course. I know if it were mine, I should. But actually, as I say, there
is one point in my garden where one can look round the shoulder of the
hill and see down through the leaves right into the corner where Mr Lane
parks his car. I can’t see any other part of the cottage, just that one
wall at the back. I happened to notice the car there yesterday and
naturally I thought nothing of it, but when I went to the same place
this morning to see if I’d dropped one of my gardening gloves I saw the
car was still in the same place.’

I stood staring at her, my face drawn and frozen. The cottage! I
thought. Oh, how _could_ Victor do such a thing so near, so dangerously
near? How _could_ he subject himself and me to this humiliation?

‘Go and look for him, Mrs Lane.’ Once again Amy Petty spoke explosively,
as if she could not keep the words back.

‘Oh no,’ I protested far too violently, ‘no, of course not. I mean to
say, I think Miss Bonwitt must have caught sight of the car on the only
two occasions when it happened to be there. I know Victor was calling at
the cottage to—to take some things on his way to town, and I expect he
called there on the way back. He keeps his golf clubs there, of course.
He’s probably home by now.’

Miss Bonwitt shook her wispy grey head at me and I noticed for the first
time that her eyes were hooded, with webby lids, and were not just dull
as I had always thought.

‘Oh no,’ she said in a quiet singsong, ‘it wasn’t like that, Mrs Lane,
it wasn’t like that at all. I first noticed the car about four o’clock
yesterday afternoon when I was tying up my chrysanthemums, and when I
went in about seven it was still there. This morning I got up very early
because there is a lot to do in the garden, and it is so cool and
pleasant in the dawn. I was out about five and, as I say, I went up to
the chrysanthemums to see if I had dropped one of my gloves. The car was
still there with the hood still down and the rug half hanging out as I’d
seen it before. I did wonder, because you know we had a very sharp
shower during the night.’

‘Victor must have forgotten it,’ I murmured, and even to my own ears I
sounded idiotic.

‘I hope so,’ murmured Miss Bonwitt, ‘I hope so indeed. But since the car
was still there, and still in exactly the same condition when I set out
for the lecture three quarters of an hour ago, I did wonder if Mr Lane
could have been taken ill up there alone. I was just mentioning it to
the others when you came in . . . Mrs Lane.’

She made it sound frightful. Although her voice was placid and there
were no undertones in it, yet she made it perfectly clear to everybody
that she had watched that car all through the hours during which there
was light enough to see it.

Hester Raye attempted to come to my rescue in a pleasant heavy way. She
had her faults and was often rude, but she had the remnants of a decent
upbringing and Amy Petty’s performance had shocked her.

‘But if Mrs Lane says Victor telephoned this morning there’s some other
explanation for the car,’ she said cheerfully. ‘Quite probably someone
gave him a lift to London from the golf club so he hid his own car. It
sounds as if it was hidden if it was in such a funny place, behind the
cottage, I mean, and not in front.’

‘Yes,’ said Miss Bonwitt quietly, ‘no one could have seen it from the
road. That’s why I wondered.’

She was silent for a long time and I felt myself shudder. It was a
rather extraordinary and unlikely thing for Victor to do. I could
believe he might be sufficiently inconsiderate to entertain someone at
the cottage for an hour or so, even, since he seemed to have made an
effort to conceal the car, all the evening, but I couldn’t think that
he’d stay there all _day_, especially without looking at his car. He was
fussy about things like that. I had not noticed that there had been a
shower, but Victor would have made sure, particularly if he had left the
hood down.

‘I suppose he did telephone, Mrs Lane?’ continued Miss Bonwitt after a
long pause, and she raised her wrinkled lids and gave me a surprisingly
intelligent stare. ‘Himself, I mean?’ She was offering me an easy way
out and I hesitated. It occurred to me that she knew rather a lot and
had probably seen things before when she was tying up flowers at seven
at night or pottering about in the dawn. I did not know what to say. It
was rather peculiar, rather alarming.

‘Who sent the message, my dear?’ Hester Raye’s practical mind was
troubled. ‘Who spoke on the telephone?’

‘It came from his club,’ I said. It was the only lie I could think of
and I hated it and myself and wished to goodness I’d stuck to the truth
in the first place. If Victor _had_ been taken ill, broken an ankle or
something, as they suggested, I had put up some fine behaviour!

Little Mrs Roundell laughed and clapped her hands. ‘How mysterious!’ she
said. ‘Or didn’t you get it right? I often don’t. I hate telephones.
Percival says I’m mentally defective when it comes to messages. People
gabble and the thing goes plop-plop-squeak, and you get cut off . . .’

‘Go out there and see, Mrs Lane. I’ll drive you.’ Amy Petty made it a
command and when I glanced at her I saw that there was a queer sick look
in her small eyes.

Hester Raye objected. ‘Not _now_,’ she said with characteristic
blindness to everything but her own convenience. ‘Not before the
lecture. The hall is filling up, thank God, but there aren’t nearly
enough people here yet. My lecturer will be here any minute. Stay. You
must stay for the talk.’

‘But if he has been taken _ill_,’ said Miss Bonwitt with gentle
firmness, ‘and I think he has, you know—the car has never been there so
long bef . . . I mean I think she ought to make sure, Mrs Raye, I do
indeed. I think Mrs Lane really ought to make sure.’

Amy Petty’s big thin hand closed over my shoulder blade as if she were
arresting me, and Izzy, feeling me jump, growled at her from my arms.

‘Go and see.’

‘I would,’ announced Mrs Roundell with sudden decision. ‘I think I
would. Telephones are the limit, and if he’s there in pain or something,
well, you’d never forgive yourself, would you? Just go and make sure and
then tear back. I’ll bag some seats for you near the door. Then you can
just slip in.’

‘I’ll never forgive you two if you clear off now,’ Mrs Raye began, but
turned away with a cry of welcome as a stout woman with her arms full of
mixed flowers, followed by a pale girl staggering under a tray of vases,
came sweeping down the hall towards us.

Amy Petty turned me bodily towards the nearest exit. ‘I’ll drive you,’
she repeated woodenly.

I went out into the side street which runs down past the back door of
the Library with her, but as I reached the pavement I hesitated.

‘Don’t trouble,’ I said. ‘I’ll go back and get a bicycle. You go to the
lecture.’

‘No. I’ll come with you. My brother will drive us.’

I stared at her. I knew she had eight or nine brothers, in fact Tinworth
appeared to be populated with Jackson menfolk, but I hardly expected to
find one standing about in the street waiting to do taxi work.

‘Good heavens, no!’ I exclaimed so loudly that a woman passing turned to
look at us. I recognized her as the younger of the two sisters who kept
the Teashoppe. I smiled at her awkwardly. ‘You certainly won’t,’ I added
to Amy. ‘It’s probably all nonsense. I’ll go home and see if Victor’s
back and if he isn’t I’ll cycle over to the cottage and investigate.’

‘No. We’ll drive you.’ The Jacksons seemed to be obstinate as well as
outspoken. ‘Come along.’

I went with her, her determination adding to my growing alarm. I was
through with Victor and in the moments when I permitted myself to think
about him I rather hated him, but I didn’t like the idea of him lying
helpless on a stone floor with a broken leg, him or anybody else. After
Miss Bonwitt’s tale about the car I knew I’d got to go to the cottage.

As we came over the road I realized why Amy had mentioned her brother.
Jim Jackson owned the leather shop on the corner and kept his car in the
open yard at its side. He came out of his office at once when she called
him and listened to her explanation with tremendous interest. As I
observed his slightly foxy face, pink under his sandy hair, my
misgivings returned.

‘I _can’t_ give you all this trouble,’ I said. ‘Let me take a taxi-cab.’

His eyes were bright and knowing and, under his secret amusement,
kindly, I thought.

‘Oh, it’s no trouble,’ he said, and if he had added, ‘It’ll give her
something to talk about for weeks,’ he could not have made himself more
clear. ‘You sit in the back with her,’ he went on, looking at his
sister.

There was nothing for it. They had decided to take me and take me they
did. If I’d not been so worried and embarrassed I should have found them
comic. To all intents and purposes I was kidnapped. Jim refused
point-blank to call at the school.

‘It’s not worth it,’ he explained, treading on the accelerator as we
passed the gates. ‘It’s only a mile and half to the cottage. If he’s not
there we’ll call coming back, unless you want me to run you to London.’

This last remark appeared to strike him as inordinately funny and he
kept grinning to himself over it all the way to the golf course. I could
see his face reflected in the high polish of the dashboard. I sat in a
corner of the car with Amy very close to me and Izzy crouching on my
knee. I did not want Victor to be injured, but I found that I was
praying that we should find anything in the world rather than an
unexplained and inexplicable visitor.

The cottage lay on the farther side of the golf course, at the end of a
long overgrown lane tucked into a grove of lime trees. I had not seen it
since my last visit in the early spring, when the trees had been bare.
It was one of these very primitive lath-and-plaster hovels which look
like something out of a fairy tale but turn out to be about as
comfortable as a heap of rubble. When I came near I saw that a pink rose
in full bloom had climbed all over the discoloured front, obliterating
one window and even dislodging some of the tiles on the crazy roof.
Ragged grass and untended flowers grew up almost to the eaves, and any
passer-by must have thought it derelict.

As Jim Jackson put his foot on the brake I leant forward and felt
suddenly sick. The front door stood wide open. Amy Petty got out before
I did, scrambling over me in her haste, but she did not cross the
moss-grown path. She hesitated and looked back and waited for me. Jim
too, seemed in no hurry. He remained at the wheel, leaning back and
watching me still with the same silly grin on his face. I let Izzy out
on to the path and climbed after him, my knees weak.

‘Victor!’ I shouted. ‘Vic-tor!’

I think we all held our breaths. There was something quite horrible
about the open door, a dark rectangle in the flowery wall.

No one answered. There was no sound at all save the hum of the bees in
the limes and much twittering in the branches. I could see where the car
had been driven round to the back of the house. The tall grass was
beaten down in a line which ran past the open door to the derelict water
butt in the corner. I followed it without speaking and Amy Petty came
with me. We found the car. It had been driven into the bushes and was as
completely hidden as one would have thought possible had one not known
that the minute triangle of colour far away up the hill was a corner of
Miss Bonwitt’s garden. The car was quite damp inside and lay just as she
had described it, the hood down and the rug hanging carelessly over the
door. I hurried back with Amy at my heels and stepped into the cottage.

It was dark inside and cool. My feet sounded sharply on the brick floor.
I was in the one reasonable room the place contained, a pleasant square
place with a ceiling of white-washed beams and a few pieces of old
furniture scattered round the walls. There was a couch covered with a
faded cotton thread, an armchair with a crumpled cushion in it, a
gate-legged table and a rug. On the whitened chimney-piece was an empty
glass. A newspaper lay on the floor and Victor’s bag of clubs leaned
against a chest in the corner.

Amy Petty pushed past me and pounced on something lying in the armchair.
I looked over her shoulder as she leant forward and I saw what it was, a
half-filled packet of cigarettes.

I called again, startled by the tremor in my voice.

‘Victor! Victor! Vic-tor!’

Once more everything was silent. Not a breath, not a sigh, replied to
me.

There was only one inner door, which led, as far as I recollected, to a
back kitchen which looked and smelled like a dungeon. This door also
stood open and I was advancing upon it when one of the most unnerving
and horrible sounds I have ever heard in my life cut through the sleepy
quiet of the afternoon. It was a long-drawn-out quavering howl which
sent me starting back, while Amy made a noise in her throat. Immediately
afterwards I knew what it was, Izzy of course. He had pottered on,
investigating on his own account unheeded by either of us.

I rushed into the kitchen, which was minute and quite derelict, plaster
falling off its walls and a trail of yellow-looking bindweed creeping in
through a crevice under the old brick copper. I heard him howl again but
I could not see Izzy.

It was a moment or so later when there was a movement in the darkest
corner of all and a cupboard door which was swinging on a loose hinge
opened wider as the little dog came backing out, his tail down and his
ears flattened. He gave me one long meaning look and then, sitting back
on his haunches, threw up his head so that the full sack of his hairy
throat was showing and began to howl in earnest. Scotties are not noisy
dogs, but when the occasion does arise they can hold their own with any
breed on earth.

The noise was like an air-raid siren, horrible with the quaver of fear.
Amid the wailing I heard from afar off the door of the Jacksons’ car
slam as Jim sprang out and the clatter as he blundered into the house
behind us. Amy clutched me with a shaking hand.

‘Look,’ she commanded. ‘Go on, look.’

As I pulled the cupboard door open Izzy stopped howling and began to
bark, snapping at my dress and dancing about like a lunatic. It made me
careful, which was fortunate because there was practically no floor to
the deep recess and I could have stepped into the yawning hole at my
feet.

It took me some seconds to make out what it was. It was the old iron
pump with its corroded bucket which I first saw, I think, and then I
looked down and the whole thing became frighteningly clear. The cupboard
was not a cupboard but a door put over an alcove to hide the pump. It
was a construction which is fairly usual in very old cottages. The iron
pump handle came through the wood at the side so that one could use it
while standing in the kitchen. The well was under the pump, its head
level with the floor directly under the place where the bucket would
hang. When it had been put in upwards of a hundred years before the
cover had been made of elm three inches thick. The years of dripping
water had won, however, and now the crazy lid, rotten as tinder wood,
had disintegrated. A hinge tongue, sharp with years of rust, stuck out
over the dark hole and attached to it was a six-inch sliver of newly
rent wood.

I strained my eyes to see down into the darkness, and damp air, chill
and revolting, reached my nostrils. Mercifully I was standing in my own
light so I could see nothing, but it was not difficult to imagine what
might be floating in the dark bottom of that narrow pit. I felt a scream
coming up in my throat and pressed my hands over my mouth to silence it,
just as Jim pulled me out of the way.

The thing I remember best of the next ten minutes was the character
displayed by the Jacksons. They were sound people, thoroughly country
and thoroughly crude, but once they had got their own way, and once
there was something obvious to be done wherein their motives could not
be questioned, I found them willing, and in a domineering fashion good
to me. Jim insisted on pushing us into the outer room while he went to
the car for a torch. When he returned with it, it proved to be a typical
Jackson possession, expensive and highly efficient. It was quite two
feet long and threw a beam like a searchlight. He took it through into
the kitchen while I sat in the chair and held Izzy. Amy stood with her
back to the chimney, her face white as the lime-washed wall but with a
queer satisfied expression in the curl of her tight lips.

We could only have waited for three or four minutes before Jim’s
high-pitched East Coast voice sounded from the inner room.

‘Amy, come in here, girl, will you?’

She went hurrying in and I could hear them whispering for a bit before
she returned with Jim following her, his face nearly as white as her own
but his eyes bright with a shamed excitement.

Amy paused before me, her lips trying out phrases silently without
uttering one of them. At last she gave up any attempt at finesse.

‘He’s in there, Mrs Lane.’

I showed no astonishment. I am not half-witted and it had been perfectly
obvious to me from the first moment I set eyes on the broken trap door
that something of the sort must have occurred. I was stunned by the
shock and I remember that the two silver bangles on my wrist were
rattling together with a sound like fairy bicycle bells. But I was no
longer astonished. That first reaction was over.

‘How—how awful,’ I said huskily.

Amy Petty looked at me for a long time and then she opened her bag and
took out a clean handkerchief which she gave me gravely. I don’t know
why, but the precaution struck me as funny and to my horror an explosive
snort escaped me. To cover it I said I’d rather have a cigarette. She
gave me one as if she was a hospital nurse inserting a thermometer, and
her brother lit it for me with a great trembling hand which had curling
yellow hairs and tiny beads of sweat standing out on it. He was so
relieved that I was taking it quietly that he made the mistake of
treating me as a disinterested spectator.

‘There isn’t above a foot of water in there!’ he burst out. ‘I can see
just what happened. Mr Lane went to get himself a drop of water for the
kettle, stepped on the little old door, which was as rotten as piecrust,
and down he went, stunning himself most likely. He’s lying in there, his
head right under. I’d know him anywhere.’

I tried to stand up. My whole world and all its problems had taken a
complete somersault and I felt as if I had nothing to hold on to.

Amy forestalled me. ‘He went to get a drop of water,’ she repeated
thoughtfully. ‘That’s about it. We’ll have to get him out. You go down
to the clubhouse, Jim, for help. Just tell them quietly that there’s
been an accident. We don’t want a whole lot of them coming up here.
Tell—now I wonder who you’d better tell? Ring up Maureen.’

I heard her as if I were listening to a play and suddenly my common
sense reasserted itself.

‘That’s no good at all,’ I said. ‘You’ll have to fetch someone in
authority. You’ll have to get a doctor and—’

‘The police!’ Amy exclaimed as if she had had an original idea. ‘That’s
it, Jim, ring up Uncle Fred South. He’ll be at the Chief Constable’s
office as it’s Friday.’

I was not surprised to hear her call the Superintendent ‘Uncle’, and I
remember reflecting with that part of my mind which was still working
normally that quite probably he was their uncle. It would be positively
queer if anyone totally unrelated to the Jacksons had any sort of
responsible job in the town.

They argued with country thoroughness on the exact form of procedure
suitable to the occasion, while I stood listening to them in a stunned
sort of way and wondering why Victor should try to get himself a drop of
water for the kettle, and where the kettle was now, and what he had
intended to do with when he had it full. There was no fire in the house.
I also wondered why he should have stepped into the cupboard at all when
the pump handle was outside.

There was no answer to any of these questions and I made the mistake of
thinking that they did not matter. I was absorbed by the one staggering
fact: Victor was dead. I found I was desperately sorry for him but not
in the least for myself. However awful this accident was, it still meant
I was free, free to be myself and free to earn my living, free to live.

With Jim’s departure, Amy became more of a menace. I found that I
couldn’t sit still in the room with her and I began to potter about,
tidying up absently. It seemed that she felt the same way because she
joined me and we used the worn cushion cover as a duster. How we could
have been so criminally stupid I do not know, except that we both
accepted it as a fact that Victor had trodden on the trap door by
mistake, and we were both tidy women to whom dust in that neglected room
was an affront.

Amy found the carton. It was on the shelf behind the curtain near the
couch. She took it down with both hands and, as I met her eyes, set it
on the table. I recognized it at once, as would anyone who shopped in
Tinworth. Bowers, the delicatessen people in West Street, put them up in
dozens for people who wanted picnic luncheons. The cardboard box was
covered with a willow-pattern design and tied with a scarlet cord. In
comparison with everything else in the room it was very clean and
new-looking. Without saying a word, Amy pulled the string and turned
back the lid. Inside there were two packets of sandwiches in cellophane,
two plain cakes and two cream ones, two cardboard plates, two drinking
cups, and two apples. Everything was quite fresh. We stood on opposite
sides of the table looking down at this forlorn meal, each waiting for
the other to speak. After what seemed an interminable pause she took the
initiative. When it came her blunt remark epitomized Tinworth, its
interest, its perception, and its inescapable common sense.

‘This’ll cause _talk_,’ she said.

‘Yes,’ I agreed sadly, but not now with any bitterness. ‘Poor Victor.’

Her small eyes opened wide at that. ‘That’s a funny attitude to take,’
she remarked disapprovingly. ‘No one thought you knew what he was. Well,
there’s no need to make more trouble than there is. I’ll do this.’

While I watched she took out one cup and one plate, crushed them into
the smallest possible wodge, and stuffed it into her leather handbag.

‘That can go out of the window when Jim drives me home,’ she explained
coolly. ‘Then I’ll take the box and put it in Mr Lane’s car. Any man can
take some food for himself if he’s going to golf. You couldn’t eat one
of the apples, could you?’

‘No,’ I said, ‘I couldn’t.’

All the same, she removed an apple before retying the string. ‘Two looks
a lot for one person,’ she explained. ‘I’ll take a bite out of this and
break it up in the grass. You never know what that Miss Bonwitt might
rake round and find.’

She went out on that line, taking the carton with her and leaving me
alone in the cottage. I was astounded by her prompt handling of the
embarrassing incident, and even admiring. I had not realized that she
had it in her to do anything so charitable for anybody’s reputation. I
was grateful too. I was going to look pretty idiotic anyway after my
crazy story of the telephone call. If there was concrete evidence of
scandal as well, there _would_ be an outburst of twittering.

Jim came back at last with the secretary of the club, two local members,
and a rope. The police were on their way out, he said, and meanwhile
he’d had orders from ‘Uncle’ Fred South to drive Amy and me home at once
so that she could put me to bed with tea and a hot bottle. It sounded a
miraculous suggestion and I blessed the man, whoever he might be for his
kindness. However, it soon became rather obvious that neither Jim nor
his sister had any intention of leaving the scene. Excitement of any
kind was rare in Tinworth. Yet ‘Uncle’ appeared to have considerable
authority and they were in a great pother about it until one of the club
members, a pleasant youngster who had brought his own car, offered to
drive me to the school and turn me over to Mrs Williams.

I never went anywhere so willingly. Izzy and I curled up under a rug at
the back of the car and shivered together. Shock makes one cold. I had
learnt that in my A.R.P. days, but I’d never realized it before. My
hands were icy, and to make things really horrible I had begun to
imagine I could smell again the damp, chill reek which had come up from
the well. I knew this was hysteria and I had got myself on a very tight
rein, but when the boy drew up at the school gates I begged him not to
bother to disturb Williams and swore through chattering teeth that I’d
call him myself. He drove off gratefully and I fled down the path to the
Headmaster’s Lodging. I could not stand any more just then. I wanted to
be alone more than anything in the world.

The hall struck cold when I opened the door and the first thing I saw
was my own note to Victor, telling him to telephone the Superintendent
about Rorke, propped up on the hall table. It might have been a hundred
years since I had put it there, and it brought home the awful thing that
had happened to Victor more vividly than anything else could have done.
I snatched up the paper and crumpled it into a ball. I was glad of Izzy.
Without him the house, empty and surrounded by empty buildings, would
have been fearful. But he kept close to me, very much aware of all that
was happening and very much on my side.

I went straight up to my bedroom. To run up and downstairs with boiling
water seemed too difficult, so I thought I’d do without the tea and the
bottle. I kicked off my shoes and pulled off my suit and only then
remembered that all my things were packed. I found the right suitcase at
last and got out my thickest dressing-gown and some slippers. I gave
Izzy some water and stripped the blankets off the bed. I thought if I
could roll myself in them and curl up in a sort of bundle I might
possibly get warm again. I also thought I might take a couple of the
sedative sleeping-pills which Dorothy had given me last holidays when
she spent a week-end with me while Victor was away. I did not remember
packing these and I looked into the empty chest to see if the tiny phial
could have slipped under the paper with which the drawers were lined.

The first thing I found was the roll of blotting-paper which I had taken
from Victor’s desk, left there ready for me to show him as soon as he
came in. I took it out and tore it up. I tore it into little square
pieces and let them float down in a shower into the wastepaper basket.
Poor Victor! At least we had both been spared one beastly half-hour, and
if Amy Petty of all people could protect his reputation so at least
could I.

Then I went back to my search for the sleeping-pills, but I could not
find them anywhere and as I was growing colder and colder I got on to
the bed and tried to doze. It was hopeless. My head began to throb
violently and I could not stop shivering. Also, of course, I couldn’t
stop thinking. Finally I got up and went down to the dining-room and lit
the gas fire. Izzy came and sat on the rug with me and the heat slowly
soaked into our bones.

I suppose it was about an hour later when the detective came. He made
such a noise hammering at the door that I was quite angry with him when
at last I got down to the hall to answer the knock. I had thought it
must be Williams and the sight of the sturdy fresh-faced young man in
the clumsy blue suit took me by surprise.

‘Hullo,’ I said, ‘what is it?’

‘It’s the police, madam.’ He was breathless, as if he had been running.
‘I am a detective officer. Will you allow me to enter?’

Now even in England policemen do not talk quite like this unless they
are very young or very new to the job. I decided he was both. He had
taken a slanting glance at my old flannel dressing-gown which covered me
most decorously from chin to toe, and a deeper scarlet had stained his
cheeks. I thought I should probably make him most comfortable by being
as formal as he.

‘Of course,’ I said. ‘I’ve been sitting by the fire in my room
upstairs—my _dining_-room. Would you like to come up there?’

He thought he would and clumped after me up the stairs, treading as
cautiously as if he thought the parquet were glass. Once in the
dining-room, he sat down on the extreme edge of a hard chair and I took
the low one by the fire.

‘Well?’ I inquired at last.

He cleared his throat. ‘My orders were to stay with you, madam.’

‘Stay with me?’

‘Yes, madam. I understood that a Mrs Williams from the lodge gates would
be available to sit with us, and I called on her as I came in. But she,
I understand, has been took bad and her husband is seeing to her. They
have sent for a Mrs Veal. Meanwhile I must ask you to stay where you are
and await the Superintendent.’

He finished with a gasp and grew redder than ever.

I was puzzled and uneasy. It seemed to me very extraordinary that the
Superintendent had not telephoned.

‘Why does he want to see me?’

The full pink lips closed in a line. ‘That, madam, I cannot say.’

‘I see,’ I murmured, and there was a long silence during which Izzy made
the most thorough examination of the visitor’s boots which any sleuth
alive could have achieved.

The pause went on and on and finally I just had to say something or
burst. I said, ‘Have you been a detective long?’

‘Two weeks.’ His face was beetroot red. ‘When we’ve done two years in
the uniformed police we’re allowed to volunteer for the plain-clothes
branch. I volunteered.’

Because anything was better than the awful breathy silence, I went on
asking him about himself, and since, presumably, he had had no orders to
prevent it he went on answering me. I learned that he was about
twenty-two, was ambitious, was going to get married—nearly married, he
said he was—and that he liked dogs but kept pigeons. Gradually I wore
down his excessive formality and he hitched himself a little further
back in his chair.

He was telling me how lucky he was to have been chosen for the exalted
brotherhood of the County C.I.D. when he forgot his caution altogether.

‘It’s a privilege to serve under “Uncle”, madam. You wouldn’t believe.
When he sent me out here today I was as proud as if I’d got the Police
Medal.’

I gaped at him. ‘Good heavens,’ I said, ‘the Superintendent can’t be
your uncle too?’

That made him laugh and we were buddies. ‘I didn’t ought to have said
that,’ he confessed. ‘It slipped out. That’s the sort of thing you have
to be so careful about. One slip and you’ve got a black mark against
you. It’s a nickname the Superintendent’s got. He’s always been known by
it, ever since he was first in the force. Everybody calls him by it to
themselves. You can’t help it. You’ll find you will.’

‘He sounds pleasant.’

‘Pleasant?’ My visitor’s laughter was derisive. ‘Not half! He’s pleasant
all right. He’s wonderful.’ He shook his head admiringly. ‘You think
he’s your father and mother rolled into one and then—crash! He’s seen
right through you and bit your head off.’

I made no comment. There seemed little to say. The two-week detective
was not looking at me. He was smiling with the fatuous delight of
hero-worship.

‘He thinks of everything, Uncle does,’ he murmured. ‘Look at today. The
second they see the bullet wound he turns to me. “Root,” he says, “this
ain’t accident, it’s murder. You nip down to ’is wife, don’t let her out
of your sight until I come” . . . oh, lor’!’

His dismay was as comic as anything I had ever seen in my life, but I
had heard his words and every drop of blood in my body felt as if it had
congealed. We sat staring at one another.

‘You’ll have to explain,’ I said at last.

‘I daren’t, I daren’t, m’m. They’ll send me back to the uniformed branch
and—’

‘They’ll sack you altogether if you don’t use your head,’ I said
brutally. ‘Come on, out with it. Do you realize you’re talking about _my
husband_? You can trust me not to give you away if you’re not supposed
to talk, but you certainly can’t leave it like this.’

He licked his lips. Poor young man! He’d never make a policeman.

‘I don’t know much more, m’m,’ he muttered. ‘I went and told you about
the lot, I’m afraid. That’s all there was. We thought we were going to
an accident but when we got there Sergeant Rivers—that’s my
sergeant—got down the well and tied a rope on the chap who was drowned.
We heard him holler something as if he was surprised, and then we all
pulled.’ He considered me helplessly. ‘This’ll just about finish me,
this will,’ he mumbled wretchedly. ‘Diane, that’s my young lady, said
I’d never be any good at this lark, and it looks as if she’s ruddy well
right.’

‘What happened when you pulled?’

‘The body came up. That was when Uncle stepped forward. “’Ullo ’ullo
’ullo,” he says, and shouts down to the sergeant, “Got a gun down there,
Charlie? Have a look for one, will you, now you’re there,” and he turns
to me and tells me what I’ve just told you. If you tell . . .’

I did not hear any more.

Murder.

Victor murdered, shot presumably, although it sounded a spot diagnosis
unless Detective Root was trying to spare me gruesome details. After the
first paralysed moment I decided it was nonsense. It was too incredible.
It simply couldn’t have happened. Victor, of all people. Who would want
to kill Victor?

I think it was that final question which brought the position home to
me. I think it was only when I asked it of myself that the elementary
and obvious answer occurred to me. _I_ was the person with real cause to
hate him.

I totted up the motives as Tinworth knew or guessed them and added the
new personality which Mrs Raye had invented for me and had already
discussed with her husband, the Chief Constable. And finally there was
my own behaviour during the past thirty-six hours! Steadily, and with
the relentlessness of a machine, my mind played the record back. There
was my conversation with Mrs Raye, my lie to Maureen. I’d actually told
her that Victor was in the house! My lie to Mrs Veal. My lie, heaven
help me, even to the Superintendent. And then there was my bicycle ride.
Who could swear where that had taken me? There was my reluctance when
the Flower Club ladies wanted me to go to the cottage. There was my
behaviour when I got there, the dusting and the tampering with the
luncheon carton. As I sat remembering, it seemed as if every tiny thing
I had done during the whole time could be misconstrued.

I felt beads of sweat coming out on my hairline and I stole a fearful
glance at the detective, but he was lost in his own misery and sat there
glumly, staring at his feet. On and on the dreadful catalogue of
circumstantial evidence piled up in my mind until I was almost frantic.
I found I was searching for replies to imaginary cross-questioning,
explaining, twisting, trying to wriggle out of the net which I had woven
for myself.

An hour passed and then another, but there was no sign of the
Superintendent. Nobody telephoned. The detective sat on, moody and
silent, afraid to open his mouth.

At dusk Mrs Veal arrived in a great state. She had not got the Williams
message until she had come in from ‘the pic’chers’ and ‘could never
forgive herself’ for the delay. Fortunately for me, she diagnosed my
condition as shock and not terror, and she bundled me into bed and made
tea and brought hot-water bottles. She let Izzy out for a run and
promised to feed him, and she did not try to talk to me. I think she
sized up the unfortunate Detective Root and decided that for information
he was the better bet.

At first he wanted to sit in the room with me but she was so scandalized
and so scathing that once more he failed in his duty and was prevailed
upon to sit on the stairs outside. For a long time I could hear the
drone of her questions and the wariness of his monosyllabic replies.

I drank the tea and lay looking at my suitcases. I could not tell
whether it would be worse to unpack them again very quickly, or to say
that I had thought that Victor and I were going on holiday at once.
Either was impractical because I’d packed everything I owned, so I lay
there and just thought.

The Superintendent arrived about midnight. His appearance was quiet and
sudden, like an amiable demon’s in a children’s play. He made no sound
at all. One moment I was dozing with my eyes closed against the bright
light, and the next, when I opened them, there he was smiling at me from
the middle of the room. As soon as I set eyes on him I knew who he was
and why he had got his nickname. He was plump and grey-haired and
amusingly ugly, with a face which could have been designed by Disney.
His eyebrows were tufts over bright little eyes which danced and
twinkled and seemed ever stretched to their widest. His old tweed
clothes were a little too tight for him, so that he looked disarmingly
shabby, and his step was the lightest and most buoyant I have ever seen.
The moment I saw him I felt assured.

He waited for the effect to sink in and then he said, ‘Awake?’

‘Yes. Yes, I haven’t slept.’ I scrambled into a sitting position. ‘I
know who you are. I’ve been waiting for you. What have you found out?’

He spun round and flicked on every remaining light, and, in continuation
of the same movement, took up a chair and sat down astride it so that he
was looking at me from over its back.

‘Everything,’ he replied, and his movements had been so swift that there
did not seem to have been a pause between question and answer. ‘How much
do _you_ know?’

I remembered the unhappy Detective Root, at this moment trembling on the
stairs no doubt.

‘I know that my husband was found in the well.’

His brows shot up, but his eyes still twinkled, intelligent, worldly,
bright with secret entertainment.

‘But you found him, didn’t you?’

‘Mr Jackson found him. I looked first, but I hadn’t a torch.’

‘Nor you had. A very nasty thing to happen to a young girl. A dreadful
experience. I’m not going to ask you if you were fond of him because you
won’t want to be asked anything like that yet. It’s too soon. It’ll only
upset you.’

He paused, but I did not speak and he nodded as though with
satisfaction.

‘Do you want to know what happened to him?’

‘Yes,’ I said. ‘Yes of course I do.’

‘He was shot.’ He pulled out the information like a rabbit from a hat
and held it up for comment.

‘Shot . . .’ I echoed. The light was full in my eyes and I blinked as I
spoke.

‘With his own gun.’

This was another rabbit from the hat and this one did astound me.

‘With . . . ? Are you saying he shot himself?’

He smiled broadly. It was the first time I had seen him do that, but I
was to find out that he did it all the time. He smiled if he was
condoling with the bereaved, or giving evidence in court. It was said to
have cost him a career in the Metropolitan C.I.D. and to be the reason
why he was still a provincial.

‘I’m not saying anything.’

‘But he can’t have!’ I protested.

‘Why not?’

‘Because he wouldn’t. He wasn’t that sort of person.’

‘No,’ he agreed, and made a gesture with his hands as if he was throwing
away some little trifle he had picked up and now decided was useless.
‘No, and he wasn’t an acrobat either, so he didn’t shoot himself through
the back of the head whilst falling down a well. That’s right.’

‘Then someone else shot him?’

He nodded, holding me with those bright dancing eyes.

‘Who?’ I demanded. ‘Do you know?’

He nodded again, still with the same expression. For the first time I
began to feel afraid of him. There was something sinister in that
knowing twinkle with its undercurrent of irrepressible gaiety. Almost I
expected him to invite me to guess who. By that time I had begun to
notice that he was forcing me to do all the talking. Detective Root had
said something about him. What was it? ‘You think he’s your father and
mother and then—crash! he’s bitten your head off.’

I grew very still. Perhaps he did suspect me and was trying to make me
give myself away. My lips were very dry and I licked them.

He noted the fact openly, with another nod of satisfaction.

‘What can I tell you?’ I murmured at last.

‘Nothing.’ He got up and moved about the room, still keeping his eyes on
me. It was an odd performance and I could not think what it was in aid
of until I realized that he was simply seeking the position in which he
could best see my face. ‘Nothing,’ he repeated. ‘Nothing now. I’m going
to leave you to sleep. That old woman can stay the night and she can
make you some hot grog. All this tea, very lowering. Doesn’t get you
anywhere. I shall leave my poor little boy with the great thick boots
and the great thick head here too. He can chase away visitors and you
can sleep. Good night.’

I was amazed and utterly relieved. ‘Good night,’ I said breathlessly.

He walked to the door, paused with his hand on the knob as if he’d
suddenly recollected something, and walked back into the room to the
exact spot on the carpet which he had just left.

‘We pulled him in,’ he remarked, still beaming. ‘I thought you’d like to
know. He was very gentlemanly about it. Came at once without any bother.
Hopped on the train with the sergeant and they were down here by
supper-time.’

I hadn’t the faintest idea what he was talking about and I gaped at him
like an idiot.

‘Who?’

‘The young feller we want.’ The country voice shook with suppressed
exuberance and his gaze never once left my face. ‘The young man you
slipped your husband’s gun to. The lad you curled your hair for. The
doctor fellow who couldn’t bear to see you so unhappy. I hear he sent
you some flowers this morning to tell you it was safely done . . .
little blue flowers meaning “success”. Pretty idea, really. I like that.
But I’m not condoning it, mind. He’s been a very bad boy and he’ll have
to pay for it. There’s no getting round that.’


                               PART THREE

The Superintendent’s voice died away but the words hung terrifyingly in
the quiet room. For a long time I could not even believe that I had
heard them, or that they meant what I thought. I sat up in bed, looking
at him woodenly and feeling that the world had come abruptly to an end.

‘Well?’ he inquired at last.

I just sat and shook my head at him, too appalled at first even to
protest. He was watching my face eagerly and my silence seemed to puzzle
him.

‘Go on,’ he insisted. ‘Admit it. It’s true, isn’t it?’

‘No.’ I got the word out at last and, having done so, did not seem able
to stop saying it. ‘No, no, no.’ I knew I was shouting and could not
keep quiet. His expression changed immediately and his voice rose with
authority.

‘Look out, that’s not the way. That’s not the way. Pull yourself
together.’

‘I’m sorry,’ I muttered, ‘but you were _too_ wrong.’

His chin shot up and his eyes were narrow. ‘What exactly do you mean by
that? Take your time. Explain yourself. I’m here to listen.’

I did my best but things seemed to be happening to me. For one thing, I
suddenly became so tired that I could hardly speak at all. I heard
myself ploughing on hopelessly.

‘It’s not only rubbish, it’s wicked rubbish,’ I was saying wearily. ‘You
could ruin his career with your silly mistakes. You’ve got it utterly
wrong.’

At that point I realized I was making it sound as though it wasn’t Andy
because it was me, but I was too exhausted to explain. My head fell
forward and I straightened up with an effort and made myself look at
him.

He was eyeing me very curiously and I could see him hesitating in the
middle of the room. He looked ridiculous, like a captive balloon swaying
there on the balls of his feet. It went through my mind that he was
trying to choose between two entirely different courses of action and at
last he came to a decision and pointed a long finger at me.

‘This has upset you a thousand times more than the death of your
husband. Why?’

I remember making a gesture of helplessness as my eyes widened and my
vision began to blur.

‘Well,’ I said brokenly, ‘it’s come on top of it.’

The point got home to him. I felt the impact of his comprehension as
clearly as if it had been a physical contact. He stepped back, made a
startled cluck of a sound and immediately, like a conjuring trick, his
personality changed back to the avuncular gnome again.

‘Now I’ll tell you what,’ he said. ‘We’ll both have a spot of
steak-and-kidney pudding. You haven’t had any dinner, that’s what’s
wrong with you. I haven’t either. We shall be getting ourselves upset.
Let’s have a bite and talk later.’

The extraordinary thing was that he actually had some steak-and-kidney
pudding, in fact he had a whole meal, enough for a family, packed up in
an old-fashioned open basket covered with a cloth. It was down with the
police car, being kept hot on the radiator, and he had it brought up
into our dining-room. I put on my dressing-gown again and had some with
him, and Detective Root waited on us, with Mrs Veal hovering and
whispering in the passage outside. Izzy was brought in and he had some
as well.

Uncle Fred South explained this latter-day miracle with a nonchalance
which, I was to learn, was all part of his legendary personality. His
wife did not like him to miss his meals, he said, and now that he was so
high up in the police hierarchy that he could afford to be
unconventional he got her to send his dinner out to him whenever he had
to stay late at the office. He mentioned cheerfully that at the moment
his office was downstairs. He smiled at me confidingly.

‘She _likes_ doing it,’ he said.

It was a peculiar pudding of a hard old-fashioned kind and it had dried
fruit and heaven knows what else in it, besides meat, but I think it
saved my life. The pause snapped the tension and my feet touched ground
again. It also gave me time to think. I could see that our only hope,
Andy’s and mine, was for me to tell the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth, and to be double quick about it, but my fear was
that even so it wasn’t going to be good enough. In my efforts to save
the appearances of my ‘ordinary’ marriage I had made some colossal
blunders, and by making them I had involved one of the few people I had
to care about in the world. I decided to let the Superintendent talk
first and we had our meal almost in silence.

He was eating some very strong green cheese, which he had pressed me to
share but had seemed relieved when I refused, when he looked up suddenly
and asked me if I knew Izzy was deaf. I said I did not think so.

‘He is. A little.’ The round man nodded at me. He was glowing again, the
meaningful twinkle which I had grown to fear reappearing in his eyes.
‘It’s not much, probably only a bit of wax. We’ll take him down to Mr
Cooper the vet and get his ears syringed sometime.’ As usual, he made me
feel that there was some hidden significance behind this statement which
he expected me to follow and share, and his next remark was equally
bewildering. ‘Have you ever been to the zoo, Mrs Lane?’

‘The—the zoo?’

‘That’s right. In London. They’ve got a beehive there in a glass case.
You can stand and see everything in it, the bees all moving and working
and eating and talking and quarrelling.’ He paused again, and again the
alarming twinkle invited me to understand and be as entertained as he
was. When I continued to look at him blankly, he laughed. ‘I always go
and look at it,’ he said. ‘It reminds me of home. Just like Tinworth.’

At last I saw what he was talking about and it was like suddenly
understanding a new and frighteningly economical language. I saw that he
was telling me that I had not a hope of hiding anything from him, and
that the gossipy interest of Tinworth in everything and everybody had
ensured that every move I had made and every word I had spoken had gone
back to him with the speed of light. _I_ was in a glass case, that’s
what he was saying. I also thought I understood what he meant about
Izzy. The dog had not barked when I had thought we were alone with
Detective Root.

‘How long have you and your people been in the house?’ I demanded.

His twinkle grew approving as if I were a pupil who was coming along
nicely.

‘Hours and hours,’ he said cheerfully. ‘You gave us a lot of work with
that piece of blotting-paper from your husband’s desk. It’s not complete
yet. What do you think we are—jigsaw puzzle experts? What was on it?’

I looked down. ‘Part of a letter Victor had written to some woman,
arranging to meet her yesterday.’

He was not in the least surprised. ‘Did it say where?’

‘No.’

‘Did you read it with a looking-glass?’

‘No, I can read that kind of writing.’

‘Can you? That’s useful. Done a bit of printing—at school, I suppose.
When did you tear it up?’

‘This afternoon, when I came in.’

‘Ah.’ I’d told him something he didn’t know at last. ‘When you knew he
was dead, eh? That’s why it was upstairs. What were you saving it for?
Divorce evidence?’

‘I don’t know much about divorce evidence,’ I said. ‘I was going to show
it to him as soon as he came in.’

‘In that case why did you move it?’

‘Because I didn’t know when he was coming in. I didn’t want it to get
tidied up or inked over, but I wasn’t going to sit by it.’

He grunted, not too pleased. ‘It’s a good story.’

‘It’s not a story, it’s true.’

‘All right,’ he said testily, ‘I’m not questioning you.’

‘But you are.’

‘Now look’—he pointed his table knife at me—‘I am doing no such thing
and don’t you forget it. You and I are having a quiet preliminary chat.
Once I want to start questioning you I’ve got to caution you, and once I
caution you I’ve got to charge you, and once I charge you I’ve got to
bring you up before a magistrate pretty _toute suite_. That’s the law of
the land. You don’t want that, do you?’

‘No.’

‘And you want to find out who shot your husband, don’t you?’

‘Of course.’

‘Well then, don’t be so silly. Let’s go on chatting away about it and
see where we get to. Did you enjoy your bike ride yesterday afternoon?’

I leant forward impulsively. ‘I’ve been thinking about that. The
gardener saw me go and Williams saw me come back, but I shall never be
able to prove where I went.’

‘Why not?’

‘Because I only went to the river.’

He settled back in his chair with a cigarette, loosening his belt very
discreetly, convinced, I am certain, that he was unobserved.

‘Tell us about it,’ he suggested. ‘We’ve got all night.’

There was very little to tell, but I made it as circumstantial as I
could. It did not sound very convincing even to me, and when I came to
the end I said so.

‘I hardly expect you to believe this,’ I finished lamely.

The knowing gleam returned to his eyes. ‘I don’t believe you could
invent anything worse as an alibi,’ he admitted cheerfully. ‘So you just
went peacefully to sleep under a willow, did you? And very nice too.’

‘I didn’t see any willows that I remember,’ I said uncertainly.

‘No,’ he agreed, ‘you wouldn’t. There aren’t any there. Funny thing,
it’s the one stretch of bank where they won’t grow. Well, that doesn’t
get us anywhere, does it? Suppose we get back to the Headmaster, Mrs
Lane. When did you see him last?’

‘On Wednesday night.’

He looked up at that but did not ask the obvious question about Thursday
morning. Instead he said casually, ‘I don’t suppose you can remember
what his last actual words to you were?’

I remembered them very well, but I hesitated. As well as being
distasteful in the extreme, the prospect looked horribly dangerous. He
was waiting, however, and I took the plunge. I remember feeling that my
only hope was to shut off every part of my mind except the actual bit I
should need to recollect, and go on steadily regardless of everything
except the exact truth.

‘We had been talking about the holidays,’ I began. ‘Victor said, “My
dear child, I cannot put it any more plainly to you. I will discuss the
matter later. Now I am very tired and there is still a great deal of
school business to be done. If you will excuse me I will go to bed. Good
night.”’

I raised my eyes to find Uncle Fred South regarding me fishily. His
mouth had fallen open a little.

‘Quarrelling?’

‘Not exactly.’

‘I see.’ It was quite clear that he did nothing of the kind. ‘Did he
always talk to you like that?’

I felt myself growing red again. ‘He talked to everybody like that.’

‘I know he did. But . . . were you alone?’

‘Yes, we were in here.’

‘I see,’ he said again, still in the same unconvinced way. ‘Was there
anything special about the holiday?’

There was nothing to do but to tell him and to make it as factual as the
bicycle ride. I found myself talking very fast to get it over.

‘Yes, there was. At least, I thought so. I had not seen much of Victor
during the term, although we both lived here. The school took up all his
time. I asked him about the vacation several times but he never had a
moment to discuss it. On Wednesday, when the school was actually
closing, the matter seemed to me to be rather urgent, so I waited for
him when he came up from his late-night session in his study and I asked
him again. He told me he thought he should have to go on his usual
climbing expedition after all, and asked me if I couldn’t go to stay
with friends.’

I stopped, but Uncle Fred South was quietly firm.

‘Go on,’ he said. ‘I knew him, you know. I’ve known him for years, much
longer than you have. Just tell me what happened.’

‘Well,’ I said, ‘I told him I did not want to do that, and that we had
been married for six months and seemed to be still virtual strangers. I
said I thought we ought to go away together. He said I was talking like
a novelette and that he was very tired and would see me in the morning.
I attempted to insist, because I wanted the thing settled, and he then
said what I’ve just told you. That’s all.’

‘But he didn’t see you in the morning?’

‘No. When I came down at the usual time he had already breakfasted, and
when I’d had mine he was with Mr Rorke in his study. I went down the
town to get away from it all and when I came back he had gone. I never
saw him again.’

The Superintendent stubbed out his cigarette. His eyes had lost their
twinkle but not their knowingness.

‘And when you went down the town you met your old sweetheart and told
him all your troubles and how you were neglected, and that your husband
was unfaithful as well . . .’

‘No.’ I was too earnest even to be angry with him. ‘No, I didn’t even
know then that Victor had even been faintly interested in any woman.’

He sat back, throwing up his hands. ‘Oh, come, Mrs Lane,’ he said,
‘think again.’

I stuck to my guns. ‘I did not,’ I insisted. ‘I can understand now that
the whole of this beastly town must think me demented for not knowing as
much as everybody else did about Victor, but they’ve all known him
longer than I have, and besides, there is one great difference between
us.’

‘What’s that?’

‘They _wanted_ to know something unpleasant about him. I didn’t,
naturally. I’d married him.’

He regarded me with a new respect. ‘You’re not quite the gentle little
mug—hrmmph! party you look, are you? When did you find out?’

‘Mrs Raye told me, or conveyed it, rather, when she drove me home from
the High Street after I’d said good-bye to Andy. Later on I saw the
blotting-paper.’

‘Oho!’ said Uncle Fred South with sudden triumph. ‘Oho! That explains
quite a bit.’

‘What? The blotting-paper?’

‘No, no. Mrs Raye spilled the beans, did she? She didn’t mention that,
my lady didn’t. Well, well, so she’s got a conscience after all. Perhaps
I’d better give you this lot.’

He felt in his coat pocket and pulled out a collection of envelopes.

‘These kept coming for you all the evening,’ he explained blandly. ‘We
had to take ’em in at the lodge or you’d have come downstairs and found
us at work. We notified the exchange to divert all telephone calls to
the station for the same reason. You read these and you’ll find out
something about this beastly town, as you call it, that you didn’t know
before.’

‘What’s that?’ I inquired warily.

‘That it’s only uncharitable in word,’ he said with unexpected
seriousness. ‘It’s all right when it comes to deeds, sound as a bell.’

I did not answer him. I had opened the first of the letters and its
contents had caught me unawares.

    _Dear Mrs Lane_,

    _I thought I must just write to you and let you know that we are
    here. If there’s absolutely anything that Percival or I can do,
    from walking the dog to running you to London, do please let us
    know._

                                             _Ever yours sincerely_,
                                                   _Betty Roundell_

There were so many of them, all in the same strain, from Hester Raye’s
‘_Dear Elizabeth, Don’t be frightened. It will be_ ALL RIGHT. _Love from
Hester_’ to dear Miss Seckker’s three pages in a fine gothic hand:

    _My dear Mrs Lane_,

    _My brother has had to go to London to visit poor Mr Rorke, who
    has been taken to hospital, or he would be at your side. I have
    been to the lodge gates myself but have not yet been able to
    gain admittance. Pray believe me, my dear girl, when I say that
    I am thinking of you all the time and sending you my heartfelt
    sympathy. I hope that you will come here as soon as it is
    permitted. We have three cats but they are good and your little
    dog will be more than welcome. . . ._

I looked up at the Superintendent, who was watching my shaking hands.

‘You’ve had these steamed open,’ I accused him.

His eyes were at their small widest and the twinkle was bland with
meaning. He nodded shamelessly and said, ‘I never.’

‘They’re very kind,’ I murmured huskily.

‘More than kind, downright interfering,’ he observed. ‘You know why
we’ve had to sit up all night? The Chief, Colonel Raye, has sent to
London for his own solicitor to represent you. He’s a terrible big bug,
name of Sir Montague Grenville. The Colonel didn’t think you ought to be
in the hands of a local man. Thought it might not be fair. He’ll be down
first thing in the morning and then I don’t suppose I’ll be able to say
how-d’you-do to you without him sitting there listening. That’s why I
had to get such a move on. Still, if Mrs Raye felt guilty about what she
hinted to you, that explains that. Very human, people are, especially
women.’

I had no time to comment on this extraordinary and in some ways
outrageous statement, for just then a detective I had never seen before
came into the room and there was a muttered conference. Uncle Fred South
put on a pair of spectacles and eyed me over the top of them.

‘I’ve got a transcript here of the items from the blotting-paper. I see
the one you mean.’ He nodded a dismissal to the detective, who went out,
leaving us alone again. It was quiet in the room and, despite the fire,
cold. Uncle Fred South had undergone one of his changes. Now that he was
off guard for a minute or so I could see him as he was without the
mannerisms, a single-minded, kindly but utterly inexorable machine for
finding out the wrongdoer and bringing him to justice. He was not
satisfied with me. I could smell it rather than see it. I knew I had
shaken and puzzled him, but as yet he was unconvinced.

‘You see, Mrs Lane,’ he said suddenly, just as if he had been following
my thought and was answering it, ‘someone shot your husband between one
o’clock and four o’clock yesterday afternoon. Someone holding Mr Lane’s
own gun forced him back through the door of the kitchen, across the
floor towards the cupboard door, which was probably standing open.
Whether your husband stepped in there with some idea of shutting the
door on himself as a protection, or whether he just went blindly where
he could to get away from the gun, we do not know, but at any rate the
rotten floor gave way under him and more than likely he stepped back
involuntarily, turning his head towards this new danger. At that moment
someone fired. The bullet entered the back of the neck and ploughed its
way up into the skull, the body plunged down into the water, and someone
threw the gun in after him.’

He made it all so horribly vivid that I shrank back into the chair. I
had an instinct to cover my eyes but I controlled it and kept staring at
him.

‘I didn’t,’ I said.

‘I never suggested that you did,’ he reminded me gently. ‘I don’t even
think you were there. But I want you to realize one thing. The deed has
been done. Someone shot him in cold blood while he was running away.
There was no fight, so there’s no question of self-defence. Understand?’

‘Yes, I understand, but to suggest that Andy—’

‘Wait.’ He held up a hand to stop me. ‘Wait. Don’t say anything until
I’ve finished. Just give your mind to what I’m telling you. There’s the
killing, that’s the first thing. Then there’s your behaviour. You’ve
told lies to everybody about your husband’s whereabouts. You’ve
attempted to destroy evidence. You’ve packed your bags. And on the night
after your husband died you sat up beautifying yourself for the first
time since your marriage. Also, you were one of the few people who could
have got possession of your husband’s gun.’

‘Anybody in the whole school could have got possession of that gun if
Victor left it where it was when I saw it last term,’ I protested.

He shook his head at me. ‘I told you to wait till the end. Now I want
you to think of Dr Andrew Durtham’s behaviour. He comes to a town where
the girl he loves is unhappily married to another man. He knows she is
there, mind. He takes a locum’s job there, deliberately. He meets her
“accidentally” in the street and they take a long drive together round
and round the town, talking their heads off. The very same day he drives
out to the golf club, where he is made an honorary member. He lunches
there with the doctor who has sponsored him. One of the other members
who is lunching there also is your husband. In the bar afterwards the
two men are introduced and stay chatting for a few minutes. The deceased
was in good spirits. Dr Durtham was noticed to be downcast.’

‘Victor lunched at the club?’ I burst out, but again he silenced me.

‘Quiet. After a while the deceased says good-bye and drives off in his
car, only a few hundred yards as we know now, to his own cottage, where
he secretes the vehicle. Meanwhile Dr Durtham, who is noticeably
preoccupied, refuses a round of golf but goes off alone, ostensibly to
walk round the course, which he has never seen before. He is out till
nearly half past five, returns to the clubhouse, picks up his car, and
drives back to Tinworth, where he makes arrangements to leave the town,
the job, and everything immediately. In the morning he buys a bowl of
blue flowers alleged to mean “success” and delivers them at the school
lodge, where he calls to see a last patient. Now what have you got to
say?’

‘Andy didn’t shoot Victor.’

‘How do you know?’

‘There was no reason why he should. Andy came here to tell me what he
thought of me for jilting him, not to make love to me.’

‘I’ve only got your word for that.’

‘Have you? Haven’t you asked Andy?’

‘It’s the story you arranged between you, is it?’

‘Oh, nonsense!’ I was suddenly and recklessly angry with him. ‘This is
absurd. I don’t know why Andy went to the golf course, but I don’t see
where else a stranger to Tinworth would go on a half-day, do you? How
would he find the cottage anyway, and if he did, why would he kill
Victor? He certainly isn’t in love with me any more.’

‘Are you sure?’

‘Of course I’m sure.’ The words were pouring out of my mouth and I was
saying things I did not know I knew. ‘Andy came down here to get me out
of his system. When he saw me I’d changed and he probably wondered what
he’d been making all the fuss about. This must have upset him and so I
suppose he thought he’d clear out and get away from it all. I expect he
thought I must be in love with Victor or I’d never put up with him.’

‘And were you, Mrs Lane?’

‘No,’ I said slowly, and the words were a revelation to me too, ‘no, I
was just out of love with love. I was trying to make do without it.’

He cocked a bright eye at me. ‘And then you suddenly saw the light and
. . .’

‘No. Superintendent, you’re behaving as though Andy and I and Victor
were alone in the world. What about all the other people? To begin with,
what about the girl?’

Uncle Fred South was leaning over the table, his clown’s face grave and
the twinkle absent from his circular eyes.

‘The girl?’ he began. ‘You’re still harping on that message on the
blotter, are you? That’s not very conclusive evidence, you know. How
d’you know it referred to this month even?’

‘But he expected someone,’ I insisted. ‘In fact, since he had lunch at
the clubhouse it must have been she who brought the picnic box, not
realizing he would have eaten, you see.’

‘The picnic box!’ He bounced half out of his chair at that. ‘I knew
there was something funny about that great parcel of food in the car.
You did that! You moved it! What other evidence have you been monkeying
about with, eh? You and your crazy face-saving which doesn’t fool
anybody. Out with it!’

‘I’m sorry,’ I said, ‘I thought Mrs Petty would have told you about
that—she seems to have mentioned everything else.’

He stiffened like a dog at a rat-hole. ‘Amy Petty? Was she in that?’

I told him exactly what had happened over the box and he took me back
again and again until the entire incident had been reconstructed in the
most minute detail.

‘Huh!’ he said at last. ‘So Amy destroyed the extra cup and plate, did
she? And why did you suppose she did that?’

‘To save scandal. We didn’t dream he’d been murdered.’

A crow of laughter with no mirth in it whatever escaped him and his
round eyes were wary for a change.

‘How long have you known Amy? Six months, eh? I’ve known her thirty
years. She married a lad I loved like a son and I always reckon he died
to get away from her. Caught pneumonia and died just to get a bit of
peace.’ He was genuinely moved, I saw to my astonishment. Forgetting
himself entirely, he leant across the table and wagged a finger at me.
‘I said to him on his death-bed, “George,” I said, “make the effort, old
son, Hang on, hang on.” He smiled at me and said, “What’s the use, Pop?
I’m tired of her and her darned family.” Then he died. That’s Amy.’

He smiled at me with surprising bitterness, remembered who I was and
where we were, and pulled himself up abruptly.

‘I ought not to have said all that,’ he said seriously. ‘That’s what’s
wrong with knowing a town inside out. The people become too real to you.
But Amy’s a Jackson and to a Jackson no one matters twopenn’orth of cold
coffee but another Jackson. Amy was saving scandal all right.’

A great light broke over me and at last I saw what ought to have been
obvious to me from the very beginning, but which had been completely
mysterious because I did not want to know of its existence.

‘Maureen,’ I said aloud. ‘Maureen. The scandal last winter was about
Victor and Maureen?’

Uncle Fred South nodded casually. That this might be news to me did not
seem to occur to him.

‘The family was just banding together to make him marry her,’ he went
on, ‘when along he comes with a brand-new wife who was much more his
style, much prettier, much more polite, and without a family behind her.
They were always a bit slow, the Jacksons, slow off the mark. They can’t
help it. It’s the country in them.’ He grinned. ‘They’d have got rid of
him, banded together, and forced him to quit the town if it hadn’t been
for Maureen. She was angry, but she couldn’t do without him seemingly.
Well, well, we’ll see if Maureen bought that picnic box. Maisie Bowers
is a sharp kid. She’ll remember if she served her.’

I was crouching over the table with my head between my clenched hands.
Many things which before had been mysterious were now devastatingly
clear. But not the main problem. This development seemed to make that
more dark than ever. Amy Petty had forced me to make the discovery of
Victor’s death. As I looked back that seemed so very obvious that I was
amazed I had not spotted it at the time. I remembered her pallid smile
of triumph when Jim had gone to find the torch, and understood it at
last.

‘But in that case why did she come round here with someone asking for
Victor?’ I said aloud. ‘If Maureen shot him, why . . . ?’

‘She didn’t shoot him.’ Uncle Fred South spoke as flatly as if he’d had
inside information from some heavenly headquarters.

‘Well then, if a Jackson shot . . . ?’

‘No Jackson ever shot anybody.’ Again he made the statement sound
irrefutable fact. They’ll band together and beggar a man and drive him
to suicide or out of his mind. They’ll have their revenge on him if they
consider he’s crossed them and they’ll never let up if they take it to
the third or fourth generation, but they’d never shoot anybody, or
poison them or bang them on the head like you or I might.’

‘Why not?’

‘Because they’re very just, upright people and the backbone of this here
nation,’ he said primly. ‘Did you say Maureen wasn’t alone when she came
round here in the night? Who was with her? Was it Amy?’

‘It could have been she.’ As soon as he made the suggestion I felt sure
he was right. ‘Whoever it was stayed in the shadow and I assumed it was
a man. Maureen was very upset. I thought she was giggling.’

He moved his head up and down very decidedly once or twice.

‘It was Amy,’ he said. ‘That’s about it. Maureen would go to Amy and
they’d discuss what to do. Finally Maureen would get her way and they’d
come round to make sure.’

‘Sure of what?’ I demanded, completely foxed by him and his lightning
reconstructions.

‘Sure he wasn’t down the well,’ said Uncle Fred South calmly, ‘the well
with the broken trap door. That’s what Maureen found when she went in to
meet him yesterday afternoon with her picnic box. That wasn’t Tinworth’s
idea of a lunch, young lady, that was tea, or a cocktail snack to be
washed down from a flask. Depend upon it, that’s what happened. Perhaps
she waited around for a bit and then got to exploring, but when she saw
the broken trap, well, it’s my bet she wasn’t in the place two seconds
after that.’

‘But he might have been in there alive.’

‘Not a hope. Maureen would know that, and she’d be off like a streak so
that no one tried to connect her with any trouble. Once she was safe,
then she’d start thinking. Amy is the one she would tell. Yes, come to
think of it, Amy is obvious.’

‘How can you possibly know all this?’ I demanded ‘You’re jumping to
conclusions, just like you were about me and Andy.’

He acknowledged the thrust with a bow of his close-cropped head and for
a second the twinkle returned to his eyes.

‘I know the Jacksons like my wife knows the ingredients she puts in her
cooking,’ he said. ‘Show her anything that comes out of the oven and
she’ll tell you every item that’s in it, and what was done to them
before they were put in there. Perhaps I don’t know you and the doctor
quite so well, but I’m learning. What sort of footing are you two on?
Tell me that and I could tell you things about yourselves that neither
of you know.’

‘But I’ve told you,’ I began helplessly.

He beamed at me with unexpected friendliness. ‘You’ve been very frank,
more than Amy has, the vixen. I’ve a good mind to go and get that madam
out of her bed. Fancy her thinking she could put one over on me after
all these years!’ He got up and stretched himself. ‘Would you be afraid
to stay here alone tonight?’

‘No,’ I said. ‘I’ve got Izzy and it’s almost morning.’

He seemed still undecided. ‘The old woman had to go home but she’ll be
back very early. I’d leave one of my boys with you but I need ’em all.’

‘It’s perfectly all right,’ I said firmly. ‘I’d like to be alone.’

He pounced on that. ‘There’s no point in you prowling round the house
looking for more evidence to destroy. We’ve been over it with a
toothcomb. What we’ve missed doesn’t exist.’

‘I don’t want to look for anything. I’ve told you the truth. All I want
to do is to go to bed.’

He appeared to come to a sudden decision. ‘All right. All right. Hurry
upstairs and pop under the blanket. You can lock your door if you like.
Take the dog. He’s a nice little chap, likes me.’

He bent to scratch Izzy’s ears and laughed when the little animal
flattened them and shied away from him. I gathered the dog up in my arms
and stumbled upstairs, too tired to be anything but thankful to get
away. My room was very tidy and I knew at once that it had been
searched. All my suitcases had been opened. I was sure of it because
they were fastened so neatly, the straps pulled so tight.

I got into bed, put Izzy on the end of it, and lay down. Then I turned
off the light.

Downstairs there was considerable movement. The police, who had arrived
as silent as ghosts, were leaving like the boys at end of term. Although
I was at the top of the house I could hear their boots on the parquet
and twice the door slammed. My window was wide open and I heard them
leave one after the other. I heard the Superintendent’s voice in the
courtyard and another which I was pretty certain was Detective Root’s.
Outside the sky was brightening rapidly and from far away over the
fields the unearthly cry which is cockcrow echoed in the quiet air. I
heard the police cars drive off and the sound of their engines fading
away down Tortham Road. Then everything was silent.

I was too exhausted even to sleep and I was horribly afraid. While I had
been listening to the Superintendent talking about the Jacksons I had
fooled myself into thinking that I had convinced him, and that
everything was going to be all right, but the moment I was alone the
full frightfulness of the situation returned and I remembered his
summing up word for word, as if I were hearing it over again. Someone
had killed Victor in cold blood. I had lied again and again concerning
his whereabouts. Andy had been wandering about in the vicinity of the
murder at the time when it had been committed.

I lay there letting the thoughts turn over and over in my mind until the
whole story became distorted and out of touch with reality. It was the
crime itself which became so utterly monstrous. I thought of a dozen
unlikely explanations for it. Once, even, I wondered if Andy could
conceivably have got into some extraordinary set of circumstances in
which he had somehow fired the shot. Yet in that unreal, half-light
world of terror I knew that was absurd. It was far easier to imagine
that in a fit of amnesia I had done it myself. The problem remained.

Meanwhile the sky grew slowly brighter and the early morning sounds
began to multiply in the world outside. I don’t know how long it was
before I first heard the car. The noise was very faint at first, a
far-off petrol engine, not very new, pounding towards me through the
dawn. It got louder and louder and I could hear it roaring up the road.

The squeal of brakes as it stopped took me by surprise, it sounded so
close. Then a door slammed loudly and in the clear silent air I heard
feet on the gravel in the drive. They came closer and closer until with
a sharp, swift tattoo they found the stones of the courtyard. Someone
was striding quickly and noisily into the school with as much assurance
as if it belonged to him. Izzy sat up, his ears pricked, but he did not
bark and I wriggled up on the pillows, my heart thudding so noisily I
could hardly hear anything else. Under my window the footsteps paused
and there was a moment of complete quiet until, quite suddenly, there
came a tremendous banging at the front door, sharp, hard knocking as
though from a man in a rage.

Izzy began to bark at last and I leapt out on to the floor just as the
very last voice in the world which I had expected came up to me, loud
and unmistakable.

‘Liz!’ Andy was shouting at the top of his voice. ‘Liz, where are you?
What are you doing in this darned morgue alone? Liz!’

I put my head out of the window. My eyes were smarting but I was half
laughing too, I was so glad to hear him.

‘Andy, be quiet. You’ll wake the neighbourhood. Here I am.’

‘Well then, for heaven’s sake,’ he exclaimed, turning a relieved face up
to me in the faint light, ‘come down and let me in. What do they want to
do, turn you into a raving lunatic?’

‘I’m all right,’ I assured him. ‘Wait a minute.’

I raced down the stairs through the silent house, with Izzy
flip-flopping behind me, got the door open, drew Andy in and took him up
to the dining-room. It was warm in there and the cloth was still on the
table, although the remains of the meal had been cleared. I opened a
window to air the place and I recall that my hands were so unsteady I
could hardly find the catch.

Andy was silent, which was unusual in him, and when he helped me with
the window I was aware of the suppressed anxiety that possessed him.

‘It was madness to leave you up here alone,’ he said. ‘I can’t
understand them.’

‘I’m all right now I know you are,’ I admitted frankly. ‘I thought
they’d arrested you.’

‘Arrested me?’ His dark hair appeared to bristle as he turned towards
me, lean and rakish, his skin drawn tight with weariness. ‘Did they tell
you that?’

‘Not exactly. They conveyed it.’

He grunted. ‘They think they’re being clever, don’t they? I’ve been
invited to talk, that’s all so far. But they can’t pin anything on me.
How can they? I’d only met the man for five minutes.’

I was not convinced. ‘You don’t understand,’ I began, ‘they’ve got it
all worked out. They think I rode out to the golf course on a bicycle,
gave you Victor’s gun, and—’

He was standing close beside me and at that moment, without any preamble
whatever, he turned and put his arms round me and kissed me very hard. I
don’t remember any surprise, only an intense relief. It was as if a load
I did not know I was carrying had slid off my shoulders forever. I
kissed him back and put my hands behind his head to hold him to me.

We stood quiet for a long time. At last he said earnestly, ‘I love you,
Liz. I’m crazy about you. I must be or I shouldn’t be here now. It’s
gone on for a long time, too, or I shouldn’t have come to Tinworth in
the first place. You love me just as desperately, you know that, don’t
you?’

‘Yes,’ I said, still in the same strange liberated mood. ‘I realized it
tonight when I was talking to the Superintendent.’

He sighed. ‘I was pretty clear about myself Thursday, when we were in
the car,’ he admitted gloomily. ‘However mad it seemed at the time, we
ought to have just kept on driving. I haven’t been very intelligent.’

I stepped back from him and walked down the room because I could not
bear to be close to him any longer, and as soon as he was out of reach I
felt I could not bear that either. I sat down at the table and he stood
staring at me wistfully.

‘What are you thinking?’ he inquired at last.

I opened my mouth to reply, changed my mind, and shrugged my shoulders.
I could not bring myself to say it, but there was a dead body between
us. We’d got to find out about Victor. He was watching me closely, and
presently he grinned at me wryly with rather heartbreaking fondness.

‘You’re not so much conventional as civilized, aren’t you, Liz?’ he
said, and settled himself on the arm of the chair by the fireplace.

I put my elbows on the table and rested my head in my hands while the
nightmare settled over me again.

‘I didn’t know those blue flowers meant “success”, did you?’ I demanded
inconsequentially.

‘No, and I’m not at all sure of it now,’ he observed promptly. ‘I
challenged that when they produced it. It was only some tale of a
char’s. The copper didn’t seem too sold on it himself. That was one of
the things which made me feel that they had very little evidence against
anybody. A perfectly idiotic story.’ He glanced at me with abrupt
directness. ‘They told me you had done the shooting.’

‘Did you believe it?’

He appeared utterly scandalized. That was the best thing about Andy, he
was the sanest thing on earth.

‘Hardly,’ he said stiffly. ‘I assured them they could cross that idea
off their list to start with. I said that the last time I’d seen you you
were determined to keep your marriage going if it suffocated you. That’s
what made me so depressed.’

‘Did you say that in so many words?’

He nodded and grimaced at me. ‘That wasn’t very clever. After that they
started worrying about my movements. I’d met Victor Lane at the club
bar.’

‘But only for five minutes,’ I put in hastily.

He slid down into the chair and leaned back, his hands behind his wiry
black head.

‘Long enough to take a dislike to him,’ he said distinctly. ‘I was
prejudiced, no doubt, but I did hate his guts. He wasn’t our sort at
all, Liz. That sort of sneery smart conceit always means a shallow chap.
Oh well, that’s over. Anyway, after I’d met him and loathed him I didn’t
feel like being sociable, so I went off for a walk. I got into a lane I
found beside the course and after a while I sat down on the bank and
tried to sort out what I’d better do. It was obvious that I couldn’t
avoid you if I stayed in the town, but on the other hand I thought it
might prejudice me with the profession if I threw up the job and cleared
out. I thought I might get a reputation for instability at the outset of
my career. So all that had to be weighed up. There was quite a lot to be
considered one way and another, and it took me the whole afternoon
before I came to a decision.’

I watched him helplessly. ‘You thought you’d go.’

‘Yes,’ he agreed briskly, ‘yes. It seemed the lesser of two evils. I
knew I’d make love to you if ever I saw you again so I walked back to
the club, picked up the car, and drove into town to fix up about
leaving. Not much of an alibi, as it happens, because I’ve got no
witnesses and I seem to have been only a quarter of a mile from the
cottage all the time.’

‘Did you hear the shot?’

He frowned. ‘They asked me that. The trouble is I don’t know. I was so
preoccupied. As I was walking along just before I sat down I did think I
heard something in the distance, but I’d only just left the clubhouse
then and Lane went off only a few minutes before I did. If that _was_
the shot, he must have been potted almost as soon as he stepped in the
cottage, which doesn’t seem feasible.’

I sat staring at him in undisguised dismay. ‘Didn’t you see anybody at
all? Didn’t anyone pass you?’ As an alibi it was worse than mine.

‘No one of any use,’ he said. ‘One car went by, but it was blinding. I
don’t think the driver could have noticed me. I fancy it was a Morris
Eight, but I didn’t notice the colour or the number. They’re going to
broadcast for the driver, but I can’t imagine there’s any hope of him
turning up or being any use if he does. The only other living soul who
passed down the road while I was there is now in hospital, unconscious,
and is not expected to recover. He’s one of the masters here, by the
way.’

‘Mr Rorke?’

‘That’s the man.’ He seemed surprised. ‘You’ve heard about him, have
you? He came down the lane while I was sitting there and he eyed me, but
we didn’t speak. I’d never seen him before and he was in a fine old
state. I thought he was a tramp. When I described him, the police
recognized him at once. He’d been to the club and they’d slung him out.’

‘I saw him start from the school,’ I remarked. ‘He’d been trying to
sober up under a shower, that’s why he was so wet. What was he doing in
the lane?’

Andy shrugged his shoulders. ‘The police say he was taking a short cut
to the London Road. A lorry driver has reported giving him a lift as far
as the northern suburbs. After that the poor beast seems to have had an
argument with a double-decker bus, so he won’t be able to help much. Not
that it matters.’

I sat up at that ‘But it does matter,’ I objected. ‘I don’t think you
understand. Uncle Fred South—’

‘Who’s that? Old turnip-face, the Superintendent?’

‘Call him what you like,’ I insisted, ‘but he’s no fool. You imagine
he’s let you out to come up here because he hadn’t any evidence to hold
you. Well, my bet is that he did it on purpose. He’s slippery, he’s—’

‘My dear girl, he wasn’t there,’ he interjected. ‘For the final three
hours or so I was interviewed by a mere Inspector and a brace of
helmetless bobbies. The Inspector read a report which came in to him and
let it out quite casually that you were up here alone. When I insisted
that in that case I was coming up myself he tried to object. I called
his bluff by pointing out that he must charge me if he was going to hold
me, and after a bit he gave way. I wasn’t followed here, Liz. The road
was perfectly clear.’

I was not satisfied. ‘It’s the gun,’ I said, ‘that’s what they’re
worrying about. It’s because they can’t connect you with Victor’s gun
that they haven’t arrested you. They think I must have given it to you
somehow.’

He thought that one over and I saw I’d got the point home.

‘I knew where it was kept, you see,’ I added. ‘They found my
fingerprints on the drawer, I expect.’

‘But that’s ridiculous,’ he protested. ‘What does that prove? I knew
where the gun was kept for that matter.’

‘_You_ did?’

‘Of course I did. In the top middle drawer of his desk. Everybody knew
it. It was one of the first things I ever heard about Victor Lane when I
first came to the town. “A colourful personality,” so I was told. “Kept
a loaded revolver in the top middle drawer of his desk. So dashing and
original.” I thought it sounded dangerous. Well, it’s proved so, hasn’t
it?’

‘But, Andy,’ I exclaimed, horror-stricken, ‘you didn’t tell the police
this, did you?’

‘No,’ he admitted seriously. ‘Being cautious by nature, I forbore. But I
assure you it was common knowledge. Provincial people like whispering
things like that. It makes home sound like the movies. When did you look
in the drawer? Yesterday?’

‘Yes,’ I said slowly, trying to remember about a thing which was as
remote as if it had happened ten years before. ‘I went into the study
once the day before, when I first got in from the ride with you, but I
didn’t go up to the desk. I was looking for Victor, but the only person
there was Bickky Seckker.’

‘Who’s that?’

I told him and he listened with interest. ‘What was he doing there
alone?’

‘He wasn’t near the desk,’ I assured him, smiling at the idea of the
gentle Mr Seckker being in any way concerned with the theft of a
revolver. ‘He was at the fireplace on the other side of the room,
burning something, I think.’

Andy was puzzled. ‘Destroying the documents, as in a spy play?’ he
inquired politely.

‘No, only burning a sheet of paper. I think he said he’d been trying to
light his pipe with it.’

‘Extraordinary.’ Andy spoke without excitement. ‘An odd place, though.
No place for you and me, Liz. To fit in with Tinworth we’d have to have
been born here. We’ll have to get out of it, and out of the country,
just as soon as we can. I love you. I love you, darling, more than
anything in the world.’

I leant across the table, my hand outstretched. ‘It’s good to hear you
say it, my dear.’

As Andy stumbled to his feet to come towards me the door behind me
opened. I felt the draught on my neck and turned just in time to see a
familiar clown’s face looming in out of the shadow of the staircase.
Uncle Fred South stepped lightly into the room and closed the door
behind him.

‘Perhaps I ought to have knocked,’ he said, and his country voice was
broader and slyer than ever.

Andy turned on him savagely, his face dark with blood and his eyes
furious.

‘Do you always walk into people’s houses unannounced, Superintendent?
The ordinary laws of the country don’t affect the police down here, I
suppose?’

Uncle was unabashed. ‘I haven’t walked in because I ain’t been out,
Doctor,’ he said pleasantly, favouring me with an alarming battery of
confidential twinkles. ‘I changed my mind. I thought I wouldn’t leave
Mrs Lane in this great set of buildings all alone, so I went to the
study, which we’ve made our headquarters, and sat there writing my
report. Then, I don’t know how it was, I must have fallen asleep in the
chair.’ He smiled at me, his face glowing with good temper. ‘I reckon it
was that pudding that did it,’ he said.

He did not expect to be believed, but it was impossible to be angry with
him. He was so cheerful about it all.

‘I came up for some of my equipment,’ he went on placidly. ‘I always
carry it about with me because I don’t like to see a constable
scribbling in the corner whilst I’m conducting an interview. It doesn’t
seem friendly. This equipment is not official. I bought it meself. Out
of the proceeds of the last Police Concert, as a matter of fact. I left
it up here by mistake.’

Andy and I stood staring at him, mystified but with growing
apprehension. As we watched he dived under the white-draped table and
came up with a box which looked like a portable radio set. A flex which
had been attached to the candle lamp which we used at the evening meal
hung limply from its side. The Superintendent put it gently on the
table.

‘Well, I never did!’ he said calmly. ‘My little old tape recorder’s been
on all the time.’

There was a long and dreadful pause. We all three stood looking at the
little machine, its turntables moving silently on the open top.

Andy sprang towards it and just as quickly a broad body inserted itself
between him and the moving tape.

‘Wait a minute, son,’ said Uncle Fred South. He edged himself round
until he stood facing us, but still shielding the wicked little machine.
‘Now look here, you two,’ he began, his round-eyed glance flickering
from one to the other of us in shrewd appraisal, ‘I’m more than twice as
old as either of you and that gives me the right to speak, policeman or
not. What I want to tell you is this. I’m not against you and I’m not
for you. In this business I’ve got just about as much heart as this
table I’m sitting on, but I’m just as sound as it and just as useful as
it too.’ He was speaking with tremendous sincerity and managed to be
strangely impressive. I know we both stepped back. ‘If you’ve killed a
man between you I’ll turn you in,’ he went on. ‘I shan’t hang you,
because that ain’t my business, but I’ll hand you over to the law and
the lawyers and I’ll read about you in the papers and never give you
another thought. But if you’re innocent I’ll get you out of this here
business so fast you won’t know you’ve ever been in it, and we shan’t
have a pack of London legal-eagles upsetting all our summer holidays and
keeping us all standing about until Christmas.’

He paused and, after giving me a steady, not unfriendly stare,
concentrated on Andy, whose dark face was unrevealing.

‘Now, I told this young woman in this very room not so long ago that if
I once knew the footing you two were on I’d tell you things about
yourselves you didn’t even know,’ he announced. ‘That is why I fitted up
this here little arrangement and set it going as soon as I heard your
car come up the Tortham Road. I’d sent word to my Inspector to let you
go, and I figured out that you’d come straight up here if you heard that
Mrs Lane had been left in the school alone. There’s nothing against you
in that. In your position I’d have done the same. Now I could have had a
fellow listening and taking everything down in shorthand, and that would
have been in order. But I didn’t do that because there’s a great deal of
difference between the spoken word and what’s been taken down by a chap
with a pencil, and I didn’t just want to catch you out. I wanted the
truth, and by gee I’m going to get it. Will you sit quiet while I play
this through to the three of us? That’s the honest way. If there’s a bit
I don’t understand, then we’ll take it back and listen again.’

There was silence for awhile. My mouth was dry and I felt sick with
fear, not because I was guilty but because I couldn’t remember anything
we’d said and because he was going to find out that Andy and I were in
love after all. I glanced at Andy, but he was watching the
Superintendent, an odd, defiant expression on his face. Without looking
at me he thrust an arm round my shoulders so that we stood together.

‘All right,’ he said.

The old man sighed. ‘That’s more like it,’ he said. ‘Sit down. It’ll
make you shy, you know. Still, we can’t help that. Now listen.’

The dreadful performance began. I had not dreamed that ordinary
conversation went so slowly. It was terrible. Every word seemed to have
twice its normal meaning, and the pauses to go on forever. Andy’s voice
I knew. It sounded exactly as it always did, very much alive and deeper
in tone than most men’s. But who the breathy young woman with the squeak
in her voice was I could not believe until I heard her saying the things
I’d said. Andy and I sat side by side at the table and stared down at
our hands clenched on the cloth. But Uncle Fred South just watched the
machine, his eyes half closed and his shining knobbly face quite
expressionless.

It went on and on. The whole picture was there but it was magnified. We
sounded as if we were overacting, and when I heard Andy admitting once
again that he had known where Victor kept his gun my heart turned slowly
over and I could scarcely breathe. I stole a glance at the
Superintendent after that, but he had not moved.

Yet the really damaging passage took me by surprise. It seemed to spring
out of its context and to obliterate every other line. It was Andy’s
voice, calm and matter-of-fact yet full of determination.

‘_We’ll have to get out of it, and out of the country, just as soon as
we can. I love you, darling, more than anything in the world._’

I did not hear my reply. I was looking hopelessly at Uncle Fred South
and he was sitting up, a wide broad smile which yet had something grim
in it spreading over his face. The recording went on; the
Superintendent’s own voice and the sound of Andy’s protest as he heard
it were all faithfully reproduced. We did not move.

At last the Superintendent leaned forward and switched off the recorder
and there was a long silence.

I spoke first. I could not bear the suspense any longer, and the grim
smile on the shrewd yet comical face of the old man seemed to fill the
world.

‘Well?’ I said huskily ‘Now you know the—the footing we’re on, what can
you tell us about ourselves that we don’t know?’

He rose to his feet and sniffed. Something had happened to him. His
whole attitude towards us had changed. He looked tired and somehow more
ordinary and when his eyes met mine there was no knowing twinkle in
them. Andy sat stiffly at the table, his dark face sullen and quiet.

‘Have you found out anything you did not know, Superintendent?’

Uncle Fred South cocked an eye at him. ‘Yes,’ he said distinctly, ‘I’ve
got my man, and I’d have had him before and we’d all have had a night’s
rest if this young woman had thought to open her mouth earlier.’

I stared. The ground was opening beneath my feet.

‘It’s not true—’ I was beginning when he turned on me.

‘Now pay attention,’ he said. ‘The police don’t give witnesses
explanations. Silent and mysterious, that’s the line the police take in
an inquiry, and then it’s all a nice surprise for everybody when the
evidence comes out in court. But because you’ve been very helpful, and
because it won’t make a mite of difference anyway in this particular
case, I’ll tell you. I’ll be as good as my word. I’ll tell you something
you didn’t know about yourselves. You didn’t know you could tell who
killed Victor Lane. Does that surprise you?’

I put my hand in Andy’s and looked at the Superintendent.

‘How did I tell you?’

He shook his head at me wearily. ‘You told your young man, you didn’t
tell me,’ he said calmly. ‘You told me who burned the sheet of paper in
the fireplace in the study. That was the important thing.’

My universe performed a dizzy somersault.

‘Mr Seckker!’ I exclaimed incredulously. ‘I don’t believe it.’

‘I don’t ask you to.’ He sat down again and leant across the table. ‘I
could lose my pension gossiping like this,’ he murmured, lowering his
voice to elude, no doubt, the long ears of Tinworth strained to hear.
‘That bit of paper was the first thing we found. It was charred but
intact and we got a nice pic from it very quickly. It turned out to be a
little document that this whole town has heard about, on and off, for
the past year or more. It was the Pitcher boy’s examination paper.’

We looked at him blankly and he laughed. ‘You two seem to be the only
people in this place who don’t know what goes on,’ he said. ‘You’re
“foreigners”, that’s your trouble. The Pitcher boy is a nice little boy
who comes from a very straitlaced home. He had the misfortune to turn in
a very silly bit of work for his end-of-term exam last winter and—’

‘Oh!’ I exclaimed as Mrs Veal’s story came back to me. ‘And Mr Rorke
wrote something on it.’

‘That’s it, that’s it.’ The knowing gleam had returned to the round eyes
and Uncle Fred South was himself again, encouraging me as a promising
pupil. ‘Mr Rorke was a bit elated, shall we say, at the time when he
corrected it and he wrote a few terse Anglo-Saxon words at the bottom of
the sheet and sent it back to the boy. The boy sent it to his pa, who
had no more sense than to send it to the Headmaster, and the Headmaster
. . .’ He broke off and his twinkle vanished and he looked at me with
unusual kindliness. ‘Mr Lane’s dead, isn’t he, poor fellow?’ he said.
‘So we mustn’t judge him. But he could be hard, and, saving your
presence, Mrs Lane, he could be dirty in business and no mistake. He
held that bit of paper over the man Rorke. He’d only got to show it, you
see, and the man would never get another job in a good school.’

Andy drew a long breath. He looked utterly astounded.

‘But did everybody know this?’ he demanded.

‘Oh yes, Doctor.’ Uncle Fred South appeared equally surprised that
anyone should query that point. ‘Rorke made no secret of it to his few
friends, and in Tinworth if you’ve told one you’ve told all. Lane said
he’d destroy the paper if Rorke went on the water wagon. Rorke did. It
must have cost him something, but he had strength, that man. Then at the
end of this term he went to Mr Lane and asked him for his release and a
reference and for the paper to be destroyed. Lane refused but said he’d
think it over. That was on the Wednesday. Rorke came down the town and
told one or two people about it. I’d heard it myself before the night
was out.’ He cleared his throat and leaned back in his chair. ‘We don’t
have a lot to talk about, Doctor, so we talk about each other. That’s
human nature.’

‘But’—Andy thrust his long hands through his wiry black hair—‘if you
knew all this why didn’t you suspect Rorke in the first place?’

‘We did. I made sure of it.’ The Superintendent’s eyes were round as
shillings. ‘Naturally, as soon as I heard that Rorke was the last person
to see Lane alive I made sure of it. But as soon as I got into the
study, what did I find? Why, the document destroyed. If the body had
been there beside it, well, it would have been simple. But it wasn’t
there. Lane was known to have been at the golf club for lunch. When he
left Rorke he was alive. We worked it out that he’d destroyed the
document in front of Rorke when they were both there together, so we
didn’t expect the young man to go after him and kill him once he’d got
what he wanted. It wouldn’t have been reasonable, would it?’

He was silent for a moment. ‘Now, of course, I can see it all,’ he went
on. ‘Lane refused Rorke and went off to the golf course. Rorke took the
Headmaster’s gun and followed him.’ He nodded at Andy. ‘You were quite
right when you said someone must have waited for Mr Lane in the cottage
and shot him as soon as he appeared. That’s what Rorke did. Then he
hitch-hiked to London and—well, poor fellow, it’s saved us a lot of
trouble. He can’t last. His back’s broken.’

‘Bickky Seckker,’ I began slowly and the Superintendent caught me up.

‘Bickky Seckker hasn’t been questioned. No one saw any point in asking
_him_ anything. But I bet I know what _he_ did. I’ve known him for
years. It’s just what he would do. I bet he was up in his classroom
waiting to see what happened at Rorke’s interview with Lane. I’ll be
bound he saw the Headmaster drive off and Rorke come reeling out just
after him, and I bet he went down to the study to see if things had been
settled. He found the exam paper hadn’t been destroyed, and it so
shocked him that he took matters into his own hands, burned it there and
then, and was caught redhanded when Mrs Lane appeared. That’s about it.’

‘But how would he know where it was?’ I demanded, fascinated by this
pyrotechnic display in the art of deduction. ‘If Rorke didn’t know, how
would Bickky?’

Uncle Fred South laughed outright. ‘Bickky has been in this school for
more years than I’ve been in Tinworth,’ he said. ‘Depend on it, there
ain’t much he doesn’t know.’

He moved towards the door, a plump and even joyous figure on his light
feet.

‘Doctor,’ he said, holding out his hand to Andy, ‘you made a very
intelligent remark on that there machine of mine. You said that you
young people ought to get out of Tinworth right away, and afterwards out
of the country. Good luck to you. But later on, in a year or so maybe
more, come back and see us all.’ He grinned. ‘You’ll find you’ll know a
lot more about us then, and we’re remarkably nice people once you get to
know us. A little bit inquisitive perhaps, but, think of the time it
saves. Good night to you both. If there’s anything I can ever do for
you, you know where to find me.’

When the door had closed behind him, Andy turned to me.

                                THE END

                           TRANSCRIBER NOTES

    Misspelled words and printer errors have been corrected. Where
    multiple spellings occur, majority use has been employed.

    Punctuation has been maintained except where obvious printer
    errors occur.

[The end of _No Love Lost_ by Margery Allingham]
