=* A Distributed Proofreaders Canada eBook *=

This eBook is made available at no cost and with very few restrictions.
These restrictions apply only if (1) you make a change in the eBook
(other than alteration for different display devices), or (2) you are
making commercial use of the eBook. If either of these conditions
applies, please contact a https://www.fadedpage.com administrator before
proceeding. Thousands more FREE eBooks are available at
https://www.fadedpage.com.

This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright
in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your country's
copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT
DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.

_Title:_ The China Governess
_Date of first publication:_ 1962
_Author:_ Margery Allingham (1904-1966)
_Date first posted:_ Feb. 7, 2021
_Date last updated:_ Mar. 27, 2023
Faded Page eBook #20210242

This eBook was produced by: Al Haines, Jen Haines & the online
Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at https://www.pgdpcanada.net





                          [Cover Illustration]




    YESTERDAY, TIMOTHY KINNIT HAD EVERYTHING.

    TODAY HE HAD LOST HIS GIRL, HIS INHERITANCE,

    EVEN HIS NAME.

    The rich and scatterbrained Kinnits had brought him up as one of
    their own, heir apparent to the family fortune. But so much
    money incites envy and greed, and someone had gone to the
    trouble of proving Timothy was an unknown stray, not a blood
    relation.

    When the girl he loved was forbidden to marry him because of the
    cloud on his name, Timothy set out on the danger-strewn path to
    find his past. The trail led to a savagely vandalized room with
    an ominous warning scrawled on the mirror—a burned down
    building—and several “accidental” deaths.

    For if someone was anxious to reveal Timothy’s identity, others
    were equally determined to hide the dark secret of his
    birth—and would commit assault, arson or even murder to do it.




                                MARGERY
                               ALLINGHAM
                            ________________

                               THE CHINA
                               GOVERNESS




                                                    CONTENTS

                    Prologue:    The Turk Street Mile      7
                                     1.   The Elopers     19
                                  2.   Dangerous Lady     33
                            3.    Miss Thyrza’s Chair     38
                             4.   “Above at a Window”     52
                                  5.   Off the Record     58
                     6.   Justifiably Angry Young Man     71
                              7.   Ebbfield Interlude     86
                                  8.   The Well House     93
                                    9.   The Stranger    102
                      10.   Conference in the Morning    110
                                 11.   The Councillor    121
                             12.   The Cobbler’s Shop    129
                        13.   “The Top of the Police”    137
                               14.   Kitchen Business    150
                                15.   The Beanspiller    161
                                     16.   Indictment    172
                          17.   The Boy in the Corner    182
                                     18.    Night Cap    195
                                  19.   Meeting Point    201
                                     20.   Eyewitness    213




                                Prologue
                          The Turk Street Mile


“It was called the wickedest street in London and the entrance was just
here. I imagine the mouth of the road lay between this lamp standard and
the second from the next down there.”

In the cold darkness of the early spring night the Chief Detective
Inspector of the area was talking like a guide book with sly,
proprietorial satisfaction. He was a neat pink man whose name was Munday
and he was more like a civil servant than a police officer. His
companion, who had just followed him out of the black chauffeur-driven
police car drawn up against the curb, straightened himself and stood
looking at the shadowy scene before him without speaking.

They were standing in the midst of the East End on a new pavement
flanking a low wall beyond which, apart from a single vast building,
there appeared to be a great deal of nothing at all in a half circle
perhaps a quarter of a mile across. The great fleece which is London,
clotted and matted and black with time and smoke, possesses here and
there many similar bald spots. They are cleared war-damage scars in
various stages of reclamation. Around the edges of this particular site
the network of small streets was bright and the arterial road by which
they stood was a gleaming way bathed in orange light, but inside the
half circle, despite the lighted windows of the building, it was
sufficiently dark for the red glow which always hangs over the city at
night to appear very deep in colour.

“The Turk Street Mile has gone now, anyway,” Munday went on. “A serious
trouble spot for three hundred years, wiped out utterly and for ever in
a single night by four landmines and a sprinkling of incendiaries in the
first raid on London, twenty years ago.”

The other man was still silent, which was something of a phenomenon.
Superintendent Charles Luke was not as a rule at a loss for words. He
was very tall but his back and shoulder muscles were so heavy that he
appeared shorter and there was a hint of the traditional gangster in his
appearance, especially now as he stood with his hands in his trousers
pockets, the skirts of his light tweed overcoat bunched behind him and
his soft hat pulled down over his dark face. The legacy of the last few
years which included promotion, marriage, fatherhood, widowerhood, and
the Police Medal had had remarkably little outward effect upon him. His
shorn curls were as black as ever and he could still pump out energy
like a power station, but there was a new awareness in his sharp eyes
which indicated that he had lived and grown.

“I understand that the district was considered a sort of sanctuary,” the
Chief was saying. “An Alsatia like the ancient one behind the Strand, or
Saffron Hill before the First World War. They tell me there was a
recognised swag-market down here.”

Luke drew a long hand out of his pocket and pointed to a thin spire far
away in the rusty sky. “That’s St. Botolph’s,” he said. “Take a line
from there to the old gasometer on the canal at the back of the cinema
over there and you won’t be far wrong. The Mile was a narrow, winding
street and in places the top floors of the buildings almost touched.
Right in the middle there was a valley with very steep sides. The road
dipped like a wall and went up again. That’s why there was no through
traffic to clear it. The surface hadn’t been altered for generations;
round cobbles. It was like walking over cannon balls.” Now that he had
recovered from his first astonishment at the sight of the new building
which was not what he had expected, he was talking with his usual fierce
enthusiasm and as usual painting in details with his hands.

“When you turned into the Mile from this end the first thing you saw was
the biggest pawnshop you ever clapped eyes on and opposite, all
convenient, was the Scimitar. That was a huge gin palace built on what
you might call oriental lines. The street stalls ran down both sides of
the way to the hill and every other one of them sported a strictly
illegal crown-and-anchor board. The locals played all day. Early in the
morning and late at night by naphtha flares. Further on, round the dip,
was the residential quarter. I don’t know if that’s the term. People
lived in caves. There’s no other word for them. Have you ever seen a
beam eaten to a sponge by beetle? Magnify it and dress the beetles in a
rag or two and that’s about the picture. I went right through it once
for a dare when I was about ten. My mother didn’t get me completely
clean for a month.” He laughed. “Oh, the Mile was wicked enough in a
way, depending on what you mean.” He turned back to the scene before him
and the enormous new block of council dwellings. The design was some way
after Corbusier but the block was built up on plinths and resembled an
Atlantic liner swimming diagonally across the site.

“What the devil have you got there?” he enquired. “A prehistoric
‘wot-o-saurus’?”

“It’s a remarkable building.” Munday was earnest. “In daylight it takes
your breath away. It’s as sleek as a spaceship, there’s not a hair out
of place on it. It’s the reason why I’ve had to disturb you tonight. Mr.
Cornish felt Headquarters must be notified at once.”

“Ah, he’s the Councillor, is he? The one who’s going to get the
knighthood for this lot?”

“I don’t know about that, sir.” The Chief was wooden. “I know he’s got
to raise the money to build five more of these.”

Luke sniffed and surveyed the monster, scored with sun balconies and
pitted with neat rows of windows, each one shrouded with pastel colours,
blue, pink, lilac, biscuit, and lime. A sudden grin spread over his dark
Cockney face.

“Got the original families in there, Chief Inspector?” he enquired.

Munday gave him a steady glance.

“Not exactly, sir. That’s some of tonight’s story. I’m given to
understand that although it’s the primary object of all these big
improvement schemes to rehouse the portion of the populace which has
been rendered homeless by enemy action, twenty years is a very long
time. The new buildings have had to be financed in the ordinary way and
the outlay has got to be recovered, so the tendency has been to allot
these very exceptional new apartments—they really are quite impressive,
Superintendent—to those people who have proved themselves first-class
tenants in the temporary accommodation which was rustled up for them
just after the war, prefabs and suchlike.”

He came to an uneasy pause and Luke burst out laughing.

“I shan’t be asking any questions in Parliament, Chief. You don’t have
to explain anything away to me. You’ve got a hand-picked lot here, have
you? And that’s why this present spot of bother which is only ‘wilful
damage’ has so upset the dovecotes? I see. Come on.”

They set off together down the partially constructed concrete ramp.
“Some of these local government big boys are remarkably like the
old-time squires, feudal old baskets!” he remarked. “‘Don’t hang your
bedding out of the window,’ ‘Teach the kids to say please, damn them,’
and ‘No Singing except in the Bath.’ I don’t like it in a landlord
myself. Someone has got irritated by it perhaps? Eh?”

“I don’t know.” Munday shrugged his shoulders. “My information is that
the couple whose home has been wrecked are a sort of show pair. The old
boy is finishing his time at the Alandel Branch factory down the road
and he’s reputed not to have an enemy in the world. The same thing goes
for the old lady who is his second wife. I believe there’s a temporary
lodger, a skilled worker from Alandel’s. They got permission to take him
in for six weeks’ trial and the rent was properly adjusted, so it can’t
be jealousy on the part of the neighbours. The damage appears to be
remarkable and the feeling is that it may be directed against the
building itself, the Council that is, and not the tenants at all.”

“Could be. Who have you got out here?”

“A good man, Sergeant Stockwell. I was speaking to him on the phone just
before we came out. He thinks it must be the work of a small gang.
Possibly juveniles. He doesn’t like the look of it but he doesn’t see
what can be done before morning. However, Mr. Cornish—” He let the rest
of the sentence remain unspoken.

“He wants the top brass, does he.” Luke was good-tempered but fierce.
“Here it is then. Both of it. We’ll go and give him a toot.”

His amused, contemptuous mood persisted as they entered the
aluminium-lined passenger elevator which carried them up to the top
floor. The convenience and neatness impressed him but the termite-hill
architecture made him uneasy.

“It’s all very quiet. What’s everybody doing behind the fancy drapery?”
he muttered, the attempt to muffle his remarkably resonant voice failing
disastrously.

“The trouble is on the other side of the building, sir. Top floor. All
the doors are on that service side.” Munday sounded defensive. “It’s not
quite like a street. A lot can happen without the neighbours knowing.”

Luke opened his mouth to say something acid but at that moment they
arrived and he stepped out of the silver box to be confronted by a
prospect of his beloved city which he had never seen before.

He stood transfixed before the unaccustomed view of London at nighttime,
a vast panorama which reminded him not so much of the aerial photographs
of today but rather of some wood engravings far off and magical, in a
printshop in his childhood. They dated from the previous century and
were coarsely printed on tinted paper, with tinsel outlining the design.
They had been intended as backcloths for toy theatres and were wildly
ambitious. The Fall of Rome was included, several battlefields, and even
Hell itself complete with steaming lakes and cauldrons of coloured fire.
Now to Luke’s amazed delight he saw the same glorious jumble of grandeur
and mystery spread out below him. He saw the chains and whorls of the
street lamps, the ragged silver sash of the river and all the spires and
domes and chimney pots, outlined with a sorcerer’s red fire, smudging
against the misty sky. It made his heart move in his side.

Munday touched his sleeve. “This way, Mr. Luke.”

He turned his head abruptly and caught sight of a small crowd at the far
end of the balcony. Here again the lighting was dramatic and worthy of
the view.

The two open doorways were bright oblongs in the dusk and the shafts
from them created a barrier between the crowd and a uniformed man on
guard.

As they came forward a square figure in a tight suit advanced to meet
them. He stepped delicately like a boxer and everything about him
proclaimed that he was Sergeant Stockwell, the inevitable “good man in
charge.” Luke gave him a long experienced stare and moved close to
Munday so that he could hear the murmured report. It was made with the
mixture of smugness and efficiency he expected but there was an
undercurrent of outrage which made him raise his eyebrows.

“The Councillor, that’s Mr. Cornish, has taken the old boy who owns the
wrecked apartment in to the neighbours next door to talk to him,”
Stockwell said. “His name is Len Lucey. He’s a fitter and a good old
craftsman with nothing known against him. Before the war he lived on the
edge of this estate with his first wife who kept a tobacco and
confectionery business—very small. She was killed in the big Blitz. He
then married a woman from North London and he had to live over there,
travelling across the city to work every day, until he was granted this
new first-class flat. His second wife has made a little palace of it by
all accounts and that’s some of the trouble. She had a sort of fit when
she came in and saw the damage. There’s a neighbour with her but I’ve
sent for an ambulance. I shouldn’t be surprised if she never comes right
out of it. I don’t blame her,” he added gravely. “The state of the room
shook _me_. I thought at first it was one of the local delinquent mobs
but now I’m not so sure. There seems to be almost too much work in it
for them, if you see what I mean.”

“It’s the further doorway, I take it?” Luke enquired. “And the
Councillor and the old boy are in the nearest one, is that right?”

“Yessir. The first flat belongs to a much younger couple called Headley.
He’s a master baker and works at the meat pie factory in Munster Street.
He and his wife are nothing to do with this business and they’ve got the
wind up. They’re not being unfriendly but they don’t want a dose of the
same medicine. They’ve already approached me on the quiet to get
everybody out if I can.”

“But they don’t want to offend the old squire, eh?” Luke was chuckling
with his own brand of savagery. “Well, well. Let’s hope for everybody’s
sake the poor old lady hasn’t taken things too hard or we’ll all be in
the Sunday newspapers and that won’t help anybody get a title, will it?”

Munday started to speak but thought better of it. Stepping forward, he
led the way past the saluting constable to the first of the open
doorways. There he hesitated a moment, took off his hat politely and
walked in, Luke behind him.

The tiny white-painted vestibule, which was merely a nest of doors, was
as neat a pack as an orange. Any addition, even a rolled umbrella, would
have been an embarrassment. The two large men were, physically speaking,
an insufferable intrusion; they were both aware of it as they stood one
behind the other peering into the small sitting room in which there were
already four people, two different kinds of wallpaper, a television set
with the picture going and the sound turned off, a magnificent
indiarubber plant, a very expensive, very well-kept lounge-dining room
suite of contemporary furniture of the “bundle and peg” variety, three
large framed flowerprints, and a fierce wrought-iron candelabra. So much
high-powered professional “design” had gone into the apartment that
there was no place for anything else and the present drama was
suffocating.

For once in his life Luke was taken completely out of his stride. The
owners of the flat, large pale young people whose acute discomfort was
the dominant thing about them, huddled in a corner, she in an armchair
and he behind it, occupying at least a quarter of the floor space. The
dazed Len Lucey, old and shaking, his very thin neck sticking out
pathetically from an extremely white collar, sat at the dining room
table on a spidery chair while before him was a person who had made much
larger rooms seem small, a living flame of a man, as passionate and
fanatical as Luke himself.

At the moment he was trudging up and down the “contemporary” rug, his
grey hair bristling, his gaunt shoulders hunched and his long bony hands
working together as he clasped them behind his back. A more unlikely
aspirant for Luke’s hypothetical knighthood it would have been difficult
to imagine. The Superintendent perceived his mistake and began to revise
his ideas.

“Councillor Cornish?” he enquired. “I am Superintendent Luke from the
Central Office, Scotland Yard. This is a shock I’m afraid.”

He was aware of acute eyes, shadowed but intelligent, meeting his own
questioningly.

“It’s a damn bad thing,” said a pleasant, matter-of-fact voice with a
touch of pure steel in it. “You’re going to get to the bottom of it very
quickly, Superintendent.”

“I hope so, sir.” Luke was brisk and hearty.

“I know so.” The voice was still pleasant but still completely
inflexible. “You’re going to uncover everything about it and then you’re
going to stop it once and for all before a great project is jeopardised.
This estate is called a phoenix. It’s not a municipal venture, it’s a
social rebirth, a statement of a sincere belief that decent conditions
make a decent community, and I’m not having failure.”

Assistant Commissioners are said to use this sort of tone sometimes to
Senior Superintendents but since there is never anybody else present to
overhear it, the theory is not proved. Luke regarded the man before him
thoughtfully and cocked an eye at Munday, who was looking at the
Councillor with an expression of gloomy contemplation.

“OO-er!” Luke did not say the word aloud but his lips moved and Munday
received the message. For the first time in their entire acquaintance
Luke scored a bull’s-eye and had the satisfaction of seeing the primness
punctured by a sudden ill-suppressed grin.

The Councillor stopped trudging up and down. “Your Sergeant has got a
statement from Mr. Lucey,” he said. “I’m prepared to vouch for the
greater part of it myself. I did not spend this particular evening with
him, but I can prove that I had his entire life story checked before he
was offered an apartment in this new block and I can answer personally
for the unlikelihood or him, or his wife, having an enemy. This is a
perfectly ordinary innocent citizen, Superintendent, and in any
civilised city his home ought to be inviolate. My God, man! Have you
been next door yet?”

“No, sir.” Luke was wooden. “I’d like to visit the flat in the presence
of the householder. That’s important, sir. If you don’t mind.” It was
another voice with metal in it and the gaunt, shabby man with the
bristling hair looked at him with fleeting curiosity.

“If it’s a necessary precaution,” he was beginning.

“No, sir. Just a regulation.” The steel was still there with plenty of
butter on top. “Shall we go? Perhaps Mr. Lucey would lead the way.” Luke
flattened himself against the eggshell-tinted wall and the old man was
just able to edge past. His frailty was very apparent and as he went by
the two detectives caught something of the bewilderment which engulfed
him.

He was so small that they towered over him and as they crossed the
second threshold and came into his home it was they, the two senior
policemen, who caught the full impact of that first unforgettable scene.

A room which had been a comfortable middle-aged home full of comfortable
middle-aged treasures, valuable mainly because of their usefulness and
their associations, had been taken apart with a thoroughness that was
almost tidy in its devastation. Yet at that first glance the one central
picture alone occupied their attention. A very neat old woman, still in
her good outdoor coat and best beehive hat, was sitting at a polished
mahogany table on whose surface there were several newly scored
scratches so deep that a triangular piece of the veneer had come cleanly
away, while in front of her, laid out in a way which struck a deep
unpleasant chill to the stomachs of the two experienced men, were the
entrails of a pleasant old French clock which lay on its back beside
them. They were all there; wheels, springs, hands, and the pendulum,
each torn and twisted out of shape but all arranged neatly in a pattern
of deliberate destruction. The old lady herself was not looking at them.
Her face was livid and beaded with sweat, her eyes were closed and her
mouth had fallen open. Only her weight was holding her in position.
Behind her another, much smaller woman, wearing an apron and bedroom
slippers but clutching a handbag, peered up at them piteously through
gaily decorated plastic spectacles.

“She’s gorn,” she said. “I felt her go. Just now. Just as you came in.
The doctor will be too late—won’t he?” She seemed to see the little man
in front of them for the first time and a bleak expression spread over
her face. “Oh, you pore chap,” she said. “Don’t look, dear, don’t look.
It was a seizure you see, she never came round.”

“That’s right, Dad, come along out.” Luke’s glance rested on the livid
face which was changing unmistakably before his eyes. The neighbour was
right. She was dead. He had no need to touch her. He slid his arm round
the old man and swung him gently out into the vestibule. There, with the
wide view of the city framed in the open doorway, they stood for a
moment like a pair of pigeons huddling on a window ledge.

“You and she came in together and saw the damage, did you?” he enquired
gently, still holding the old man to him as if he were afraid he might
fall. “Anyone else with you?”

“Only Reg Sloan. He lodges with us, see?” The old voice was thin and
hollow. The significance of the scene had not yet registered upon him.
He was still worrying about smaller things. “We was allowed to let the
room seeing it was empty; we got permission, I told the Sergeant. Mr.
Cornish knows. Reg got the permit from him. He went to see him—went to
see him, I say, called at his house.”

It was like a voice on the wind, something sighing through the rushes.
Luke was unnerved by it. “Take it steady, chum. Get a breath of air,” he
said. “How long has this chap Reg lived here with you?”

“How long? I don’t know. Two or three months. Before Christmas he came.”

“I see. Recently. He hasn’t been here years?”

“Oh no. He’s temporary. He’s walking the works and they asked me if I
could oblige by putting him up for a few weeks. We got permission, me
and Edie did. He got it for us.”

“What do you mean by ‘walking the works’?” It was Munday. He was half
out of the sitting-room door, his hands on the lintels as he leaned
forward to speak.

“Well, he was learning the ropes. He came from another firm, you see. It
was a business arrangement. He wasn’t going to stay.”

“I see.” Luke sounded dubious. “Where is he now, anyway?”

“I don’t know.” The old man looked about him suddenly. “He went for the
police. He went to telephone. We all came in together. We’d been out to
have one. Reg liked a chat about old times and we used to go and have a
chinwag in the pubs. Tonight we all came in together and Edie saw the
clock all broken on the table and she’s upset because it was her
father’s. It came from her home. Reg began to swear and went into his
room—that’s the little one through the kitchen—and he came out almost
at once. He said ‘Stay here Len. I’ll go and ring the police, mate.
Gawd, I’m sorry,’ he said. ‘I wouldn’t have had that happen for worlds,’
he said and he went. Don’t you know where he is? Edie likes him. He’ll
be the only one to pacify her when she realises her clock’s broke.”

“Yes.” Luke glanced sharply at Munday. “What about the neighbour?” he
enquired. “Could she take him along and make him a cup of tea?”

“Yes.” The woman in the decorated spectacles came round the detective
like an escaping cat slipping out. “Yes. I’ll see to him. It’s the
shock, you see. You come along, Mr. Lucey. You’ll have a lot to do
tonight. A lot of people to see and that. You come and have a sit down
and get ready for it.” She put her hand under his arm and eased him away
from Luke. “Make way for us do, there’s good people.” Her voice, shrill
and consciously preoccupied, floated in above the murmur of the little
crowd. “We want a cup of tea we do. If you want to help there’s a woman
needed in there. That isn’t a thing that ought to wait.”

Luke listened with his head on one side. The brutality made him laugh a
little.

“I’m too sensitive altogether for a copper,” he said to Munday, who was
looking down his nose. “It was the lodger’s quarrel, then. That’s what
comes of ‘walking the works’ I suppose. Yet it seems a bit fierce for
that sort of industrial dust-up.”

“Fierce? Do you see those chairs?”

The D.D.I, stepped aside to reveal a corner of the room which contained
two good dining chairs whose leather seats had been scored neatly into
ribbons with a razor blade. “Like a joint of pork, isn’t it? The
carpet’s the same. That’s no wrecking in the ordinary sense. No joyous
smashing up for the hell of it. Just cold bloody mischief.” He spoke
with clipped fury and the Superintendent’s eyes rested on him curiously.

“I don’t like the look of that clock,” Luke said. “I’ve got a thing
against trick-cyclists and head-shrinkers and all their homework. Let’s
see the lodger’s bedroom. Off the kitchen, he said. Strewth! That used
to be an electric cooker, I suppose?”

They passed through the little kitchen where nothing breakable was left
whole and yet where nothing had been overturned haphazard, then on
through the further door leading to the architect’s pride, a spare or
child’s room. It had no space for anything save a bed and a dressing
chest but there was no doubt at all in either mind as they paused in the
doorway that here was the centre of the storm.

Everything a living animal could do to destroy and to desecrate bed and
walls had been done. Scraps of clothing and the relics of a suitcase
made an untidy heap on the narrow strip of floor. A canister of flour
from the kitchen had been thrown at the looking-glass and lay like
trampled snow over the remains of a decent blue suit with the lining
ripped out which lay on top of the ruin of a plastic wardrobe.

On the mirror’s clouded surface there was a message written with a
gloved forefinger in the kind of printing sometimes taught in schools
instead of handwriting.

There were two lines, completely legible and entirely unambiguous, and
yet sufficiently out of the ordinary in the circumstances to startle the
two senior policemen.

“_Let the Dead Past Bury Its Dead._” The portentous statement stared out
at them, educated and shocking amid the filth. Underneath, in the same
careful, clerkly script was a second message: “_Go Home, Dick_.”

Munday stared at the messages, his thin pink face bleaker even than
usual in his suspicious bewilderment.

“‘Bury its dead’?” he demanded. “What the hell is this! Who was to know
she was going to die?”

“No, that’s a quotation. A piece I learned at school. Tell me not, in
mournful numbers, Life is but an empty dream, and the something or other
is dead that slumbers and things are not what they seem. Psalm of Life,
Henry Longfellow.” Luke was talking absently, his Cockney flippancy
unintentional and as natural a part of his personality as his
tremendously powerful voice which, even when geared down to a murmur as
now, was a rumbling growl which set the shreds of the curtains shaking.

“Someone else has been to school, eh? They didn’t teach him much except
poetry either, by the look of this room. Poetry and thoroughness, and
the rest is the same old uncivilised brute. The same old Turk Street
special, cropping up like a symptom of a familiar disease. There’s no
mystery now about ‘walking the works’ anyhow.”

“What do you mean?”

“‘Go home, Dick’.” Luke’s dark face was glowing. “The chap’s name was
Reg Sloan. What else can it mean except exactly what it says? Dick, you
old private eye, amateur or professional, go home. The past is dead.”

“Good Lord.” Munday stood staring at him. He had changed colour, Luke
noted.

“What’s on your mind?”

The Chief Inspector stepped backwards into the kitchen.

“I was thinking of the Councillor. If he gets it into his head that this
is an echo from Turk Street long ago, something pre-war, and if he
decides that a detective has been employed by someone unknown to dig up
dirt about one of his precious hand-picked tenants—any of the three
hundred and sixty of them—then I’m going to have a job for life, aren’t
I?”

“That’s right,” Luke said. “Also he’s quite an item, this literary
character who is so interested in keeping ancient history quiet. Why is
he only interested now? What could he want to hide which has only become
important after twenty years?”




                                   1
                              The Elopers


In the expectant greyness which was only just less than the night’s dark
a cock crew twice. Instantly, from the rise behind the wayside station a
second rooster answered him, and with this unearthly sound, the whole
ritual of daybreak began.

In the red sports-car which was pulled up on the lane’s verge below the
station drive, the two young people who were asleep in each other’s arms
moved drowsily. The girl’s lips were still against the cheek of the
young man beside her and she completed the kiss which sheer weariness
had interrupted before she opened her eyes. “Oh no,” she protested
sleepily. “_No._ Not morning yet, surely?”

“Julia!” The boy was all over awake at once, his eyes bright as the lids
flickered open. He returned her kiss joyfully and glanced down at the
watch on his wrist; his forehead crumpled and he sat up. “So much for
our careful planning! We’ve slept for two solid hours and the train will
be here in fifteen minutes. Oh hell! You’ll have to go down to the Keep
alone. Do you mind?”

“I feel as if I shall never mind anything ever. It may wear off but it
hasn’t yet,” she said blithely. She was kneeling up on the seat and he
put his arms round her waist and hugged her. “But if I’m to get your car
under cover by daylight I’d better go now, which is a bit heart-rending
. . . you’re sure Nanny Broome really is a hundred per cent on our
side?”

“Completely.” His voice was muffled as he rubbed his face against her
chest with weary longing. “I telephoned before I collected you. Anyhow,
she’s almost my foster-mum. She’s always on my side.” He sat up to look
at her seriously. “I gave her the full details. I told her what we had
in mind.”

She met his eyes squarely, her own round and grave.

“Was she scandalised?”

“Lord no. She was thrilled to bits.” He shivered slightly. “And so am
I.”

“Me too.” Julia was just visible in the cold light. She was a very
pretty girl: not very tall, but slender, with fine bones and hair so
dark as to be almost black. Her skin was thick and white and unpainted
and her bright blue eyes and determined mouth echoed her father’s
considerable personality. He was Anthony Laurell, head of the Laurell
light engineering empire and youngest self-made tycoon in Britain and
one of the most interesting characters in industry. Julia was just
eighteen, warm and gay as a lamb, and every detail of her cared-for,
well-dressed appearance acknowledged that she was somebody’s very
precious only child. At the moment she was absorbed, peering down into
the shadowed face raised to her own.

“Your smile is like lace,” she said.

“Lace?” He was hardly flattered.

“Decorative.” She was entirely serious. “It sort of trims you up and
makes you glorious.”

“You’re idiotic,” he muttered through his kiss. “Sweet and certifiable
and I love you, I love you, God! I love you. Darling, I’ve got to catch
this dreary train back to London but tonight . . .” His voice broke with
a disarming helplessness which pinked them both like a sword. “Tonight
I’ll come back and find you and damn everybody else in the world.” He
pushed her firmly away and climbed out of the car.

“Timothy.”

“Hello?” He swung round in the fast growing light and she saw him for
the first time all over again. He had a rangy body, a distinctive,
characterful face, grey arrogant eyes, and a wide thin mouth whose lines
could curl and broaden like copperplate handwriting. He was twenty-two
and all the panoply of masculine physical charm which had earned him a
host of admiring contemporaries, even in the Oxford where they both were
students, was at its freshest and best. To see all this giddy power and
splendour helpless before her was a part of the enchantment which bound
her and she caught her breath before it.

“I don’t want you to go back to London!”

“Nor do I, lady! But I’ve got to. I’ve got to see your old man and have
it out with him. His trip to Ireland made it possible for me to get you
away and safe down here while I talk, but we can’t just clear out into
the blue.”

“Why not?” She was coaxing. “Honestly, I don’t care any more about
anything in the world except being with you. Two months ago I’d rather
have committed suicide than upset Daddy or got in the newspapers. Now I
just can’t care.”

The young man put his hands on either side of her face and looked down
at her like a child with a treasure.

“You go on thinking just like that and leave the rest to me,” he said
earnestly. “But I can’t face the thought of you and me being turned into
a nice Sunday ‘read’ for halfwits. It was foolhardy and inconsiderate of
your old man to call the whole thing off suddenly, just when his own
invitations to the engagement ‘do’ were out, and he must have known that
the gossip hounds would be down on us like a blight. I must talk to him.
He can’t have so much against me.”

“He hasn’t. I told you I don’t know why he suddenly vetoed the marriage,
but he liked you and he liked your background and was impressed by the
degree and the sports record and . . .”

“Then why? For God’s sake?”

“It was something to do with a letter he got from Miss Kinnit.”

“From Aunt Alison?” He was staring at her. “Do you know what was in it?”

“No, or I’d have told you. I only knew it came. I didn’t mean to mention
it.” The dusky colour appeared in her cheeks. “She was so nice to me. I
thought she approved.”

“She does. She’s a funny, cold old thing but terribly kind—after all
she and Eustace are my only family and she was delighted about you. They
keep teasing me about you being the deb of the year. This must be some
completely idiotic misunderstanding. I’ll go and put it right. Wait at
the Keep and love me.”

From the embankment above there was a clatter as the signal fell and her
arms closed round him possessively.

“I’d still rather you didn’t go. I’ll hold you. I’ll make you miss the
train.”

He released himself gently. “Please don’t,” he said gravely but with
great sweetness, his lips close to her ear. “You hurt too much. Too much
altogether.” And turning from her he ran up the slope into the
half-light which was already throbbing with the noise of the train.

Julia sat listening until the engine had shrieked away into the fields
once more and then with a sense of desolation she let in the clutch and
drove away through the back roads to where the village of Angevin lay
hidden in the Suffolk folds.

She avoided the turning to the single main street of cottages and took,
instead, the upper road which wound through the fields to a pair of
neglected iron gates leading into a park so thickly wooded with enormous
elms as to be completely dark although their leaves were scarcely a
green mist amid the massive branches.

The trees grew near to the house, so close in fact that they obscured it
from the north side and she had to use the headlights to find the squat
Tudor arch which led into the paved yard. As she passed it a yellow-lit
doorway suddenly appeared in the shadowy masonry and the angular figure
of a woman stood silhouetted within it. She came running out to the car.

“Mr. Tim?”

“No.” Julia was apologetic. “It’s only me I’m afraid, Mrs. Broome. We
got held up and I left him at the station. You knew he was going back to
London, didn’t you?”

“Yes. Until tonight.”

There was an indescribable note of satisfaction in the brisk voice which
startled Julia as well as reassuring her, and the newcomer went on
talking. “He told me all about it on the telephone and what he didn’t
tell me I was able to put together. There isn’t much Mr. Tim hides from
me.”

It was a strange greeting, neither hostile nor effusive but possessive
and feminine and tremendously authoritative. Julia was only just
sufficiently sophisticated not to be irritated. “What about the car? I
don’t think it ought to stand out where it can be seen, do you?”

“No Miss, I certainly don’t and I’ve given my mind to that, all night
nearly. I think it should go down to the little piggy brick house. I’ll
show you where.”

She stepped into the empty seat and pointed to an opening on the further
side of the yard.

As she settled down beside her Julia noticed that she was trembling with
excitement, and her round face turned suddenly towards her showed patchy
red and white. Margaret Broome was a woman of perhaps fifty but her
coarse hair was still fair and her light brown eyes were bright and
shiny as pebbles in a brook. Her gay green cardigan was buttoned tightly
across her chest and she folded her arms against the cold.

“It’s all overgrown but if you drive slowly you’ll make it,” she hurried
on. “I slipped down last evening to make sure we could get in. It’s the
old summerhouse at the end of the View. We used to call it the piggy
house when Tim was a baby, after the little pig’s house that was built
of brick you know.” She was unself-conscious in her nursery talk, matter
of fact rather. “Nobody goes there now. It’s too far for anyone in the
house but right in front of the windows, so no one’s going to hop in
there courting from the village. Here we are. See, I propped the doors
open. You drive straight in.”

It was a little ornamental temple with a tessellated floor and pillars,
designed perhaps as a music room in some far off Victorian age of
extravagance.

The panelled double doors had lost much of their paint but they were
still stout and the car lights revealed the usual summerhouse miscellany
piled in spider-infested confusion against the far wall.

“There,” said Nanny Broome, hopping out with the agility of a girl, “now
we’ll shut and lock the doors on it and no one will be a penny the
wiser. We must hurry though, because it’s nearly light. Come along miss,
stir your stumps.”

The nursery way of speaking flowed over Julia, amusing and reassuring
her without her realising that she was receiving a treatment whose
technique was as ancient as history. She hurried obediently, helped to
close the doors and then followed the angular figure round the side of
the building to the broad terraced path which led up the slope to the
front of the Keep. As she looked up and saw it for the first time from
this vantage point she paused abruptly, and the older woman who was
watching her exploded in a delighted giggle. In the pink light of dawn,
with the long shafts of sunrise cutting through the mist towards it, the
Keep at Angevin was something to see.

At that moment it was a piece of pure visual romance, inspired and
timeless. Much of its triumph lay in the fact that it was an unfinished
thing. The original family who had begun to build a palace to outrival
Nonesuch had died out before they had put up little more than the
gateway, so that the actual structure which had come down to posterity
retained the secret magic of a promise rather than the overpowering
splendour of a great architectural achievement.

Two slender towers of narrow rose-pink brick, fretted with mullioned
windows, were flanked by three-storied wings of the same period, all
very carefully restored and remarkably little spoiled by the Victorian
architect who had chosen to build the summerhouse at this magnificent
point of vantage.

“How staggering it looks from here!” Julia was almost laughing. “When I
came to the houseparty at Christmas we didn’t get as far as this so I
never saw it from this angle. I know why Timothy calls it his castle.”

“It is his castle.” Again the satisfied and possessive warning note
jarred on the younger woman. “When he was a tiny boy in the war, he and
I used to sneak out here in the very early morning mushrooming, and I
used to tell him about the knights riding in the courtyard, jousting and
saving ladies and killing dragons and so on. He loved it. All the kids
have it now on telly,” she added as an afterthought. “Do you ever see
it? Ivanhoe.”

“That was a bit earlier, I think. You’re a few hundred years out. When
was this building begun? Henry the Eighth’s reign I suppose?”

“Henry the Eighth! He was nobody to tell a child about!” Mrs. Broome
appeared to be annoyed by a fancied criticism. She strode up the path,
the patches on her round face brighter, and her eyes as hard and
obstinate as stone. “I’m afraid I wanted my young Mr. Timmy to grow up
to be a chivalrous gentleman with a proper attitude towards women,” she
said acidly. “I hope you’ve discovered that he has one, miss?”

She turned her head as she spoke and made it a direct question. Julia
regarded her blankly. “I love him very much,” she said stiffly.

“Well, I thought you did, miss, or you’d hardly be here now, would you?”
The country voice was ruthless. “What I was meaning to say was I hope
you’ve always found him what you’d wish, you having been brought up as I
hope you have?”

It only dawned upon Julia very slowly that she was being asked outright
whether or no she was a virgin and her youthful poise wilted under the
unexpected probe. The colour rose up her throat and poured over her
face, making the very roots of her hair tingle.

“I . . .” she was beginning but once again Nanny Broome had the
advantage. Reassured on a point which had clearly been exercising her,
she became kindness itself and almost more devastating.

“I see you have,” she said, patting the visitor’s arm. “Of course young
people are the same in every generation. There’s always the ‘do’s’ and
the ‘don’ts’ and it’s only a fashion which seems to put one or the other
lot in the front rank for the time being.” And, as if to emphasise her
whole-hearted co-operation in an enterprise of which she had once been
doubtful, she seized the girl’s little suitcase and hurried on with it,
still talking. “Sometimes children get funny ideas, but I brought up Mr.
Timmy myself and I didn’t think the schools could have done him much
harm after that. It’s a scientific fact, isn’t it, that if you have a
child until he’s six it doesn’t matter who has him afterwards.” Again
she gave the little laugh that would have been arch had it not been for
the alarming quality of complete faith which pervaded it.

The girl glanced at her sharply under her lashes, and the blurred
youthfulness of her face stiffened a little.

“I hope you won’t mind me calling you Nanny Broome but that’s how I
think of you. I’ve heard it so often from Timothy,” she began, taking
the initiative. “Did you look after him from the time he was born?”

“Very nearly. He was just over the two days, I suppose, and the ugliest
little monkey you ever saw. Great big mouth and ears and his eyes all
squitted up like a changeling in the fairy tales.” She laughed
delightedly and her face became radiant and naïve. “I’ve looked forward
to saying that to the girl he was going to marry for over twenty-one
years.”

Julia’s intelligent mouth twitched despite herself. “And is it true?”
she ventured. “I mean, was he really? Or can’t you remember now?”

The elder woman blinked like a child caught out romancing. It was a
completely sincere reaction and utterly disarming. “Well, I remember he
was very sweet,” she said thoughtfully. “I loved every little tiny scrap
of him, that’s all I know. He was my baby. I’d lost my own, you see, and
he crept right into my heart.” She used the cliché as if she had coined
it, and the essential side of her nature, which was warm, unselfish, and
mindless as a flowerbud, opened before the girl. “You see I’d been a
nurse in the Paget family over at St. Bede’s and I was just on thirty
when I met Mr. Broome, who was the head gardener, caretaker, and
everything else here. He was a widower with five lovely grownup children
and when he asked me I couldn’t resist them and all this lovely place to
bring them to. So I married him, and my own little boy was on the way
when there was all that business before the war—Munich time. The
doctors had me in hospital at Ipswich but it was no good. Baby didn’t
live and I came back knowing I wouldn’t have another. So when I was
given Timmy to look after you can guess, I expect, young though you are,
how I felt. And hasn’t he grown up a darling? And now you’ve come to
take him away.” The final phrase was spoken solely for effect and its
falseness did not convince even Mrs. Broome herself, apparently, for she
laughed at it even while she uttered it and there was no trace of
resentment in tone or smile. “You’ll never take him right away,” she
added with a grin of pure feminine satisfaction. “He’ll always be my
little Prince Tim of the Rose-red Castle in one little corner of his
heart. You can see that’s true because where did he bring you? He
brought you to _me_ to hide you. Now you come along and I’ll give you a
cup of tea.”

They had reached the last terrace as she finished speaking and only a
lawn separated them from the tall graceful façade, whose blank windows
looked out sightlessly to the estuary two miles away.

“It’s all locked up except for my little door.” She took her visitor’s
elbow and guided her over the damp grass to the narrow entrance from
which she had first appeared.

Julia was aware of a small service hall with the stone painted walls and
varnished woodwork of the more solid variety of Victorian Gothic
mansion, and found herself ushered into a long, narrow room with a very
high ceiling. It was yet warm and remarkably comfortable despite a
double row of painted water pipes round the cornice.

“Since the children went and Miss Alison wanted Broome and me to live in
the house, we gave up our cottage and I’ve made us a little flat out
here.” Her guide led her over to the window where a modern dining unit
complete with pews and a gay blue and yellow plastic-topped table had
been installed. “The big kitchen is nearly forty feet long so there was
no point in poor old Broome and me rattling about in it alone. I use the
scullery as my kitchen and the butler’s pantry has made me a lovely
double bedroom and you’d never guess that this was the still room before
the First World War, would you? It’s my lounge now and I love it. Excuse
me a moment while I see to the kettle.”

She bustled out of the room, arch, affected, enjoying the romantic
situation to the full and yet, despite it all, strangely genuine at
heart. Julia looked about her curiously. The room reflected its owner to
the point of giving itself away. A pile of weekly magazines whose bright
covers promised the latest in patterns and notions stood on the
old-fashioned dresser, which itself had been treated with white paint.
The walls under the festooning water pipes were hung with a rose-strewn
paper and the sky-blue curtains matched the table top and the washable
upholstery of the chair seats. Homemade black wool rugs broke up the
glare of black and yellow linoleum tiles but the “contemporary” effect
was not so much enhanced as debunked by a peculiarly individual type of
ornament. The room was full of toys which had been mended and repainted
and which stood about in places where knick-knacks would have been more
usual. A wooden engine, for instance, enamelled scarlet over its scars,
occupied the place of honour in the centre of the dresser, while all
over the place there were little newly dressed dolls and animals, as
well as china wheelbarrows and boots holding cut flowers or little
ferns.

Julia’s white leather coat and silk scarf appeared remarkably
sophisticated in this artless setting and Mrs. Broome, returning with a
painted tin tray set with multi-coloured china, eyed her with open
admiration.

“You look just like what the paper said of you—the one that forecast
the engagement,” she announced. “‘The leading fashionable young lady of
the year.’ I was so happy I cried when I read that. ‘A princess,’ I
said. That’s what I always promised Mr. Timmy when he was a little tiny
boy.”

Julia sat down abruptly, trying not to look dismayed. “Oh dear,” she
said. “You explain quite a lot about Timothy, Nanny Broome.”

“Quite likely, but not _all_.” The woman spoke with unexpected
shrewdness. “There’s nothing like a British Public School and Oxford to
mould the clay. Mr. Eustace Kinnit said that when he insisted on sending
the poor little chap away to Totham preparatory school. He was only
eight and a bit; he _did_ look a baby!”

She was talking fast and pouring out at the same time, but as she picked
up a steaming cup to hand it to her guest she paused and fixed her hard
brown stare on her.

“Tell me, miss, what exactly has your father got against young Timmy? I
should have thought my boy had every mortal thing a gentleman could want
for his daughter. Looks, lots of money, wonderful brains and education,
a place all ready for him in a business which will be his one day, and
lovely manners though I say it myself who taught him. I don’t understand
your Dad because if we’d been preparing the lad for it all his life he
couldn’t have been more suitable for you, or that’s my view!”

Julia hesitated, and Mrs. Broome nodded her approval without letting up
in any way.

“Did something happen to put your father off?” she enquired. “He seemed
willing enough at first, didn’t he? He was going to give you a dance to
announce it or so Probe Parker said in my paper. Then, quite suddenly,
he changed his mind and was dead set against it and the column wanted to
know why. Quite frankly, miss, so do I, and I’m the one who would know
if there was anything real to object to.”

The dark and elegant girl in the beautiful clothes sat looking at her
thoughtfully and Mrs. Broome watched her.

“You were thinking that too, weren’t you my poppet?” she said with her
eyes but she did not venture the question aloud and Julia came to a
decision.

“Did you ever meet Timothy’s parents, Mrs. Broome?”

“No, miss, I didn’t.” She spoke with decision but there was a faintly
satisfied, “just as I thought” expression in the voice. “I heard Mr.
Eustace’s and Miss Alison’s younger brother had been killed in Spain, of
course, but I didn’t see much of the family the first year I was
married. It was only when I came home from the hospital after losing my
baby that I found the family had moved down here because the war was
just about to start. When I first married Broome the house was kept as
it is now, partly as a show place and partly as a store. The family owns
a gallery of antiques besides having an interest in the big auction
rooms. And a lot of the important pieces were very often kept here, as
they are still.”

“Yes, I knew that.” Julia was anxious not to intrude. “I only wondered
if you’d ever seen Timothy’s mother.”

“No, miss, I only saw the girl who brought him down because London might
be bombed. She wasn’t a uniformed nurse and not really safe with him,
which was why I took over. I always understood that his Mummy had died
in childbirth, but with eighty babies in the house you can understand I
was too busy to hear much.”

“So many?” Julia’s dark eyes widened. “Miss Kinnit told me at Christmas
about the evacuees. On the first day of the war this house was invaded.
It was a sort of clearing station, wasn’t it, for the district? You must
have had a time!”

An expression of such intense happiness that it could almost have been
called a radiance transfigured Nanny Broome suddenly.

“Oh! It was wonderful,” she said fervently. “I never had a second to
think of my own trouble, and then having Timmy without his mother it
saved my life it did really!” She paused. “Your father’s very
old-fashioned, I suppose?” she said abruptly.

“Father? No, I should have said the opposite.” The girl was out of touch
with the trend the conversation was taking. “Why?”

“I went to the adoption when Mr. Eustace made Timmy his own little son,”
said Mrs. Broome without explanation. “We all went up to the Law Courts
in London and into the judges’ secret room and it was summer and Timmy
was in his first white sailor suit with long trousers although he was
only five.”

“_Secret_ room?” Julia appeared fascinated.

“Or it may have been ‘private,’ I forget.” The romantically minded lady
was unabashed. “Anyway it was hidden away in the panelling, and all the
gowns and wigs and water-bottles and things were about, and I sat in the
passage while the business was done. Timmy was wonderfully good so the
lawyer told me. We used to play ‘Judges’ after that. I had an old white
fur shaped stole that looked just like a wig when you put it round your
face. Now miss, Broome will be up in a minute, so I’m going to take you
up to your room. I’ve been getting it ready ever since I heard a rumour
Timmy had got a young lady. I knew he’d bring you here honeymooning. He
always promised me that. ‘I will bring my bride, Nan, and you shall look
after us.’” She imitated the small boy with such fidelity that for a
second he stood before them, an arrogant pygmy, packed with authority in
a washable white sailor suit.

She picked up Julia’s suitcase and turned a smiling face towards her.

“You’d better get some sleep,” she said. “You won’t get much once you’re
on the run from the reporters. They’ll be on to you like ravening
wolves, your father appealing for you on the telly like he did last
night.”

It took a moment or so for the astonishing statement to register on
Julia.

“But that’s impossible,” she said at last. “He doesn’t know.”

“Oh yes he does.” Mrs. Broome was remarkably cheerful about it. “Parents
always know a lot more than children think. They’ve got an instinct you
know, here”—she patted her lean chest delicately. “Anyway I know it’s
true because I saw it myself when I was sitting up waiting for you. Just
after the last news they caught him getting on to an aeroplane to go and
look for you. ‘I wish she was safe at home in bed,’ he said, and his
poor old face was all wizened with worry. I was quite sorry for him even
if he has taken a silly dislike to Timmy. ‘You’ve made a rod for your
back and you’ll suffer for it,’ I said to him and I switched him off.”

The girl rose slowly to her feet. “My father was coming _home_ on an
aeroplane last night from a business trip to Ireland . . .” she began.

“Oh, that may have been it.” Mrs. Broome made it clear that she did not
care. “I know I thought that he could go flying to Gretna Green in
Scotland but he wouldn’t find you and Timmy because you’d be here, safe
in the Bride’s Room. Come along, miss, it’s quite a way, up on the
nursery floor, but it’s this side of the turrets.”

She led the way out of the service quarter into the vast house itself.
Julia followed her, struck again as she had been on her first visit by
the enormous size of the corridors, the endless acres of dark oak
plywood panelling all looking perfectly new, and the stone staircases
which spiralled from floor to floor. Only the windows whose glazing bars
were as finely carved and delicate as if they had been in wood seemed to
belong to the palace which she had seen from the summerhouse.

“Wouldn’t it have made a lovely school?” said Nanny Broome, only the
least bit breathless as they arrived at last in a gallery as long as a
skittle alley and looked at the line of mahogany doors all splendidly
furnished with brass and cutglass.

“I always call this the Nursery Suite, and there was one time when Timmy
was about six and very noisy that we used it for that, but it was always
a long way up and lonely. We’ve never been able to get proper help here,
you see, not in my time. It must have been wonderful in Mr. Eustace’s
grandfather’s day. Twenty-three people in the servants’ hall and then
they thought they were understaffed, or so Broome says. He can just
remember the old gentleman. ‘Like God in tweeds, he was.’ Broome always
says that though I shouldn’t repeat it. Well, this is the room, my dear.
We always used to call it the Bride’s Room, Timmy and me. We had our own
names for all the rooms, but the others were nearly always kept empty
except when they were needed to show off a great suite of furniture or
some tapestries or something. We had his things brought up to the room
at the end there but they were all taken back when Timmy went to school.
However, the Bride’s Room was always here and kept like this under dust
sheets. I’ve got it all out and pressed all the covers; they’re not even
yellow, they’ve kept so well.”

Her hand was on the doorknob when she glanced at the visitor. Julia was
standing in the long empty corridor, the clear morning light falling on
her from the high windows. There was something about her which was
peculiarly lonely and which reduced the cosy chatter to the status of an
old wives’ tale. A scared look passed over Mrs. Broome’s face as she
glimpsed reality’s fleeting skirt but her resilience was indefatigable
and in a moment she was talking away again as happy as a child
uncovering a surprise. She opened the door and stood back to let the
visitor pass.

“Look, miss!”

There was a long pause as they stood together surveying the scene. “You
can see why we gave it its name? Yet it was made, I believe, for one of
Queen Victoria’s daughters who didn’t get married—or perhaps Mr.
Eustace was joking when he told me that. He says some silly things: you
never know how to take him. Anyway it’s a princess’s set of furniture
all right, isn’t it?”

Julia was silent. The huge square box, parquet-floored and
high-ceilinged, had been arranged to display a suite of bedroom
furniture designed and made in the halcyon days of the last quarter of
the nineteenth century, when modish taste was just due to go clean out
of fashion for the best part of the next hundred years.

The half-dozen pieces, all of which were very large indeed, were painted
white and carved with festoons of flowers, birds, and cupids. To display
them the walls had been tinted a vivid blue which had now faded, but the
carpet, which had evidently been stored and recently relaid, retained
its original turquoise. The bed was the most extravagant piece. Its
graceful cane half-tester rose high towards the cornice and was so
festooned in carved white wood that the effect was positively insecure,
as if the great couch were trimmed with icing sugar. A magnificent
spread of fine Irish crochet over a blue lining completed a picture of
chill grandeur, chaste to the point of being suspect.

“Bridal and pure and oh, I hope you’ll be so happy!” Nanny Broome spoke
straight from a heart which was coy and warm and unaware of the dismay
she was producing. Even when she turned and caught sight of the frozen
young face staring from the monstrous edifice in front of her to the
horrific intimacy of the double washstand with the green marble top and
the waterlily shaped toiletware, she did not comprehend.

“Oh, miss! Don’t you like it?” There was reproach as well as
astonishment in the question.

“It’s very beautiful. Thank you very much for taking so much trouble but
the whole room makes me feel rather cold. I don’t think I’ll stay here
now if you don’t mind. Is there somewhere else I could change and lie
down for an hour or so?”

Julia sounded as if she was aware of being ungracious but had decided
she could not help it. Mrs. Broome remained disappointed and deeply
mystified. “It’s not _the_ room, you know, miss,” she said suddenly.
“This isn’t the one the tale is about. That one is on the other floor
and right the other side of the house, and even that is not the true one
either, because it happened in another house. I wouldn’t give you
_that_, even though I’d take my dying oath it’s never been haunted.
There’s no ghosts anywhere in the Keep, thank God.” She spoke with
tremendous fervency but the chill remained and her round eyes were
watchful. “You’ve heard all about it, I suppose?”

“No.” Julia was already turning towards the door and the nurse made a
move as if to intercept her. Her expression was fearful yet naughty,
disapproving yet dying to tell.

“Do you know about Miss Thyrza’s chair?” She made the murmured phrase
sound comically sinister, like a child trying out a suspectedly wicked
word.

Julia heard her but without interest. She had reached the doorway and
was almost running towards the stairhead. On reaching it, however, she
paused and turned back, re-entering the room just as Mrs. Broome was
coming out. Hurrying across the blue carpet, she climbed on to the stone
sill and threw open the window pushing back the casements until they
were at their widest so that the morning air poured into the room.

“Why, miss, whatever are you doing? There’ll be leaves from the tree
tops, birds and I don’t know what flying in. That spread alone is worth
a small fortune.”

“Very likely.” There was unexpected firmness in the young voice. “But I
don’t think we’ll worry about that. Please leave the room like this to
air. I may come back here later but just now I should like to lie down
somewhere else.”

Mrs. Broome opened her mouth to protest but thought better of it. She
was trained to recognise authority when she met it and presently she led
the way downstairs again, for the first time looking a little dubious.




                                   2
                             Dangerous Lady


A remarkably ill-tempered-looking old man, as aggressively pink and
clean as a baby, wheeled a new barrow slowly across the gravel drive.

As Julia looked down on him from the window of the small sitting room on
the ground floor, the hot midday sun winked off the bright paint of the
bodywork and she grinned.

This was Broome himself and his unmistakable resemblance to a Walt
Disney dwarf could hardly be entirely unintentional. She wondered if he
knew.

Now that she was rested and had fed from the luncheon tray Mrs. Broome
had just removed, she had reverted to her normal gaiety. She looked cool
in a grey tailored cotton dress with a terra-cotta scarf and shoes and
her hair a black silk helmet. She sat on the edge of the table, her
small hands, blue-veined at the wrists, folded in her lap. She was very
much in love, her mind quite made up.

The morning paper which had been brought to her in triumph with her meal
had been folded back by Nanny Broome into a harlequin’s wand so that no
other news of war or peace should detract from the main story. There was
a snapshot of Sir Anthony Laurell across two news columns. He was shown
descending from a plane and smiling all over his face, above the
caption: “Tired But On Top; Flying Chairman Settles Strike Threat Yet
Again.” The story was a purely industrial one concerning labour disputes
in Northern Ireland but it finished with a brief report of the little
incident which was all that had mattered to Nanny Broome. “As he paused
to pose for reporters, weary but well satisfied and smiling hugely, one
daring correspondent asked Sir Anthony if he knew where his daughter
was. This was a reference to the rumour that the engagement expected
between Julia Laurell, Sir Anthony’s only child, and twenty-two-year-old
Timothy Kinnit, heir to the famous Kinnit’s Salerooms in Dover Street,
will not now be announced. Gossips are blaming Sir Anthony for the
broken romance and are predicting much heart-burning from the young
people. In reply to the question last night Sir Anthony’s smile
broadened. ‘Safe in her bed, I hope to goodness,’ he said heartily and
strode off to his car.”

Julia had explained the significance of the report in some detail as
soon as her hostess returned to collect the tray, but without any
noticeable success. She was not very surprised therefore when there was
a series of furtive little knocks at the door and the good lady arrived
in a flurry.

“I told you you were wrong,” she said, her pebble eyes showing white all
the way round but her irrepressible smile escaping through the drama.
“They’re here!”

Julia slid off the table and took a step towards the window.

“Who?”

“Newspapers, like I told you and you said was so unlikely. Oh, not out
_there_.” Mrs. Broome appeared to resent so literal an interpretation.
“Amy Beadle has just telephoned from the Goat and Boot—she’s the
licencee in her own right and a great friend of mine—she says two
different London papers rang up to ask if you or Mr. Timothy had been
seen in the village. She told them ‘no’ and then she wondered if I knew
anything.”

“What did you tell her?” Julia was developing a very firm way of
speaking coupled with unusually clear enunciation when talking to Mrs.
Broome.

“Oh, I was very careful.” An unexpected shrewdness appeared in the
shining face. “I know Amy. If something isn’t there she’ll make it up.
There’s only one thing to do with Amy and that’s to look her straight in
the face and lie. I said I didn’t know why in the world they should want
to ring _her_, and if it was anybody’s place to know a thing like that
it would be mine. I hadn’t heard a whisper from London, I said—our
exchange is automatic you see, so there wouldn’t be a leak there—and I
was on the qui vive to hear something, but I expected Mr. Tim would take
you to Scotland or, if they’ve stopped Gretna Green, to Paris or
somewhere like that.”

Julia looked very young again. “You were very thorough.”

“You have to be with Amy. Which reminds me, miss, if you should see
anybody arriving in the drive—I don’t suppose you will but you never
know—nip straight down this passage here on the left and go into the
big door at the end. It looks like an ordinary lock but it isn’t quite,
there’s a little brass catch underneath. Pull that sideways and you’ll
get into the big drawing room. I call it the Treasure Room. That’s where
all the valuables are kept and that’s the room I never take strangers
into when they call, as they do to see the old-historic-building and so
on. The lock closes behind you and there’s the same arrangement inside
so you can always get out. It’s just a safety precaution. You know the
room, it’s the one the dance was held in at Christmas.” She paused for
breath and was silent for a moment thinking. Presently she took a step
forward, laid a shining red hand on the girl’s shoulder and spoke with a
seriousness all the more impressive because it came from so far beneath
the surface.

“I’ve been thinking about you all the time I’ve been working about the
house this morning, and I do hope you’ll understand what I’m going to
say,” she began. “It’s very easy to take offence at such times I know,
but miss, why don’t you have a betrothal? I know Mr. Timmy and I think
I’m beginning to know you. You’d both be much happier. You want to be
happy on a performance like this because there’s a lot of little things
to worry about.”

There was no doubt at all about what she meant or the genuineness of her
concern.

“Mr. Lingley, the parson, the Rev-Ben they call him, has known Mr. Timmy
for fifteen years and I know he’d like to help.”

Julia was sitting on the table again, her black eyes narrowed and her
intelligent face looking so young that its defencelessness was a
responsibility.

“I don’t quite know what you mean by ‘a betrothal,’” she said at last.
“It sounds perfect but what is it? Some sort of ceremony?”

“Oh, I think so, miss. You’d have to leave all that to the parson, of
course, but you read about it in all the stories, don’t you? There’s an
exchange of rings I know. You’ve got your engagement ring and I can find
one for Timmy. There’s a lovely big one in the cabinet in the
drawing-room—it came from Pompeii I believe.” It was only the faint
upward note, on the final word, an infinitesimal lack of decision in the
enthusiastic rush, which conveyed to Julia that there was no real
guarantee that Mrs. Broome had any clear idea what she was talking
about. In many ways it was a pathetic situation, the treasures at stake
priceless and delicate and both women aware of all the facts without
comprehending them.

Mrs. Broome was hovering, her eyes hopeful and enquiring.

“I think it’s done in church and it’s just a prayer and a promise, but
the papers aren’t signed because you have to have a licence if they are
and you’re under age, aren’t you, miss? What I feel is that it would be
a good thing to do because, although it wouldn’t be legally binding in a
court of law, it _would_ be to you two, you being the kind of children
you are, and that would make you both much more comfortable. Let me ring
up Mr. Lingley and ask him if he’d slip round. I won’t tell him why but
I know he’ll come. He’s a very good man. Very kind and conscientious.”
She was within a hair’s breadth of being convincing in her nursery
authority, but at her next step the thin ice cracked. “Long, long ago
the man knelt praying before a sword all night and nowadays they just
call it a wedding rehearsal in the newspapers,” she said devastatingly.

Julia caught her breath and laughed until the tears in her eyes were
reasonable.

“You’re thinking of a _vigil_,” she said. “I’m afraid that’s something
quite different. No I don’t think I’ll talk to Mr. Lingley. Thank you
for thinking of it.”

“But he’s a good man, miss. A homely practical chap too, even if he does
wear a cassock all day. He’d help if he could.”

“I’m sure he would. I did meet him you know, at Christmas. No, let’s
leave it to Timothy. I’ll tell him what you suggest.”

“Ah!” said Mrs. Broome. “Now I _know_ you’ll make Timmy a good wife
because he’s very proud and headstrong and has to be led. I shall hold
you to that, miss. You tell him. I’ll have a nice supper for him and
then you tell him to telephone the Rev-Ben and I’ll be bridesmaid.” A
sizzling noise from the gravel outside silenced her in mid-stream and
they both looked out of the window. A Jaguar had just driven through the
arch on to the drive and two men were dismounting almost under the
window in front of them.

Nanny Broome took one look at the shorter and darker of the two and
flushed scarlet with vexation.

“Oh heck!” she said unexpectedly and managed to make the absurd word
shocking. “Mr. Basil! That’s torn it. He _would_ come rolling in just
when nobody wants him! It’s Mr. Basil Toberman. I expect you’ve heard of
him. He’s the other side of the business, the black sheep if you ask me.
He drinks like a sponge and thinks he’s something an angel’s brought in.
I don’t know who that is he’s got with him.”

“I do.” Julia was looking apprehensively at a tall, thin man who was
climbing out of the passenger seat. “That’s Albert Campion. I don’t
think he _could_ be looking for me already, but I think I’d better get
out of the way.”

“What is he? A lawyer?” Nanny Broome had drawn the girl back but was
still craning her own neck.

“I don’t think so. People tell you all sorts of things about him, what
he is and what he isn’t. You call him in when you’re in a flap. Go and
head them off while I get under cover.”




                                   3
                          Miss Thyrza’s Chair


The brass lock on the drawing room door was easy enough to negotiate
once one knew its secret and Julia had the satisfaction of hearing the
catch spring home as she closed it behind her and entered an immensely
tall, gracious room with a polished wood floor dotted with fine,
well-worn rugs.

Here the stripped panelling was warmly gold and the pictures, mostly of
the English school, were mellow and gentle in the afternoon light. Sepia
Delft tiles surrounded the fireplace, their crudely drawn Biblical
scenes in faded cyclamen blending with the pinkish pine, while above
them, instead of a mantelshelf, there was an archway high enough to form
a balcony with slender balusters and a tapestry-hung wall behind. As
usual Nanny Broome’s pet name for it was extremely apt; there were
treasures everywhere including a pair of cabinets in Italian marquetry,
huge and splendid things, whose long serpentine glass shelves were
covered with porcelain. The general effect was elegant and informed.
Glass-topped specimen tables of various periods were scattered among
velvet chairs and needlework-covered settees and here and there a
collector’s item, a tiny walnut harpsichord as graceful as a skiff, or a
box in stumpwork old as the building itself. The whole place smelled of
cedar, probably furniture polish, but pleasant and peppery and very
evocative in the slightly airless silence. Through the windows the
leaves dancing in the sunlight looked as if they must be making a noise,
it was so quiet and still indoors.

The tiles attracted Julia who had just reached them when she heard the
door catch move again and recollected with a shock that at least one of
the visitors must know the house quite as well as did Mrs. Broome. There
was only one hiding place and she took it promptly, mounting the
enclosed stairs which led up behind the panelling to the balcony. A
curtain hung over the arched entrance, hiding her, and she sat down on
the second step to wait until they left.

“But the Victorians were tough and very interested in crime.”

She did not recognise the voice and presumed that it was Toberman’s.
“Here you are. These are the Staffordshire Murder Cottages and their
incumbents. All this collection on the centre shelf.” The aggressive,
thrusting voice was not so much loud as penetrating. It reached her so
clearly that the hidden girl assumed he must be within a few feet of
her. Yet Mr. Campion’s laugh, which she recognised at once, seemed much
further away and she guessed that the two men were standing before the
china cabinet on the far side of the room.

“Extraordinary,” Mr. Campion said and sounded sincere. She could imagine
his expression of innocent bewilderment, his pale eyes smiling lazily.
He was not a particularly handsome man as she recalled him but a very
attractive one with a strong streak of sensitive interest in his fellow
men.

“When you first mentioned the Murder Houses to me the other day I looked
them up. It seemed such a macabre idea that I didn’t believe you,” he
went on frankly. “To my amazement there they were, illustrated in the
textbooks; pottery figures representing famous criminals of the
nineteenth century and the houses they lived in. I was rather startled
in my old-ladyish way. My hat! Imagine looking up from one’s fireside to
see a replica of George Christie and Rillington Place on the
mantelshelf.”

Toberman laughed. “Perhaps not. But you’d rather like to see Maigret and
his pipe, Poirot with a forefinger to his grey cells, or Nero Wolfe with
an orchid. Taste is swinging that way again. You ought to study this
collection, Campion. Eustace will never part with it while he’s alive
but one day it’ll be famous. There’s every Staffordshire crime-piece
ever made in this cabinet, and that’s unique. The Van Hoyer Museum in
New York hasn’t that very rare second version of Maria Marten’s Red Barn
over there, nor the little Frederick George Manning—he was the criminal
Dickens saw hanged on the roof of the gaol in Horsemonger Lane, by the
way—”

“Yet they have Miss Thyrza and her chair?”

“That’s right.” He seemed rather pleased about it. “The only other copy
in the world. Eustace’s great-grandfather, Terence Kinnit, bought up the
moulds and destroyed the whole edition to prevent the perpetuation of
the scandal of his murdering governess, but he couldn’t resist saving
two copies, one for his own collection and one to grow into money to
recover what the suppression cost him. As usual his judgment was sound.
Miss Thyrza was forgotten and his grandson, that was the present
Eustace’s father, sold the second copy to the Van Hoyer for the highest
price ever paid for a single piece of Stafford.”

“Really?” The quiet man was gratifyingly impressed. “And the crime
happened in this house, did it?”

“The murder? Oh no. Terence moved here _because_ of the murder. His
restoration of this house took the minds of his neighbours off the other
smaller building at the back of the village where the trouble took
place. It was pulled down later. Here the lady is, Campion. Drooping
over the fatal chairback. How do you like her?”

Tucked away behind the curtain on the staircase, Julia could not see the
speaker but she heard the faint twang of the thin glass as the cabinet’s
doors were opened.

On the other side of the room Mr. Campion was looking over Toberman’s
shoulder as he took the portrait group from the shelf. It was a typical
product of the factory, heavily glazed, brightly coloured and sincerely
but ingenuously modelled, so that the over-all effect was slightly
comic. The chair was a cosy half-cylinder, quilted inside and coloured a
fierce pink. The lady, in a long royal blue gown very tight in the waist
and low over the shoulders, was draped beside it, her long black hair
hanging across her face and breast. At her feet, two indeterminate
shapes, possibly children, huddled together on a footstool.

“It has very few flaws and that’s unusual for Stafford to begin with,”
Toberman said, turning the piece over in his short hands. He was a
blue-chinned man in the thirties with wet eyes and a very full, dark-red
mouth which suggested somehow that he was on the verge of tears. “It has
a refreshingly direct, modern feeling, don’t you think? See the packing
needle?”

He pointed to a spot inside the chair’s curve where there was a small
protuberance. Mr. Campion had taken it for a fault in the glazing but
now that he came to examine it he saw the grey blade painted upon it. He
glanced up in startled astonishment.

“A packing needle! Was that the weapon? What a horribly practical and
homely item. She simply wedged it, sticking out of the upholstery, I
suppose? How very nasty.”

“It worked,” said Toberman cheerfully.

“I imagine it would.” Mr. Campion spoke drily. “The chair must have
become a Victorian version of the medieval ‘maiden.’”

“You could call it that. But the ‘maiden’ was an iron coffin lined with
spikes, wasn’t it? The victim was pushed inside and the lid shut on him.
In this instance there was only one spike, arranged to catch a man just
below the left shoulder-blade. The needle would be slightly thicker than
a hatpin but made of steel and as strong as a stiletto. Either she
pushed the fellow on to it from the front, or she went round the back of
the chair as he was about to sit down, put her arms round his neck and
pulled hard. That was what the prosecution suggested, as a matter of
fact.”

“When _was_ this fruity little crime?” Mr. Campion continued to be
astonished. “I can’t think how but I seem to have missed it altogether.”

“You don’t surprise me.” Toberman was disparaging without being actually
offensive. “Experts always develop pockets of ignorance. I notice it all
the time. You’ve got an excuse here, though, because Terence Kinnit was
an influential man and was able to hush the business up. There were two
or three other sensational crimes in the same year—1849—also the young
woman wasn’t hanged. The jury acquitted her but she committed suicide,
so it was assumed that she was guilty after all and the public lost
interest.”

Mr. Campion made no comment and there was silence for a moment in the
cedar-scented room. Presently Toberman put the group back and his guest
stood looking at it through the glass.

“Who are the little creatures in the foreground?” he enquired.

“Those are the cousins. Miss Haidée, Terence’s daughter, and Miss Emma,
his sister’s child. Thyrza was their governess. They were much older
than they’re shown there; the artist made them small to emphasise their
unimportance. Emma was the eldest; she was just on sixteen. Haidée was a
year or so younger. Thyrza herself was only twenty. The victim was the
music master. He used to ride out from the town once a week and there
was an affair. Little Haidée found some letters, nosey little beast. She
showed them to her cousin Emma who gave them back to Thyrza. Thyrza got
the wind up in case the kid told her mother and tried to get the chap
sacked, but without success. All this came out at the trial. The music
master had fancied himself as a rural Don Juan and had talked about his
conquests, so Miss Thyrza was practically forced to get rid of him or
lose both her job and any hope of marrying well. Being an ingenious
young woman she set about repairing the upholstery in the visitors’
chair with a nine-inch packing needle.”

“Why did the jury acquit her?” Mr. Campion appeared to be fascinated by
the far-off crime.

“Oh, I imagine she was young and beautiful and intelligent in the box,
you know,” Toberman said. “She insisted that the thing was an accident
and of course, if it hadn’t been for the letters and the motive the man
had given her by his boasting, it could easily have been one. What a
splendidly unhealthy atmosphere there must have been in that school
room, eh Campion?”

“Fearful. Why did she kill herself?”

“No future.” Toberman’s shrug lent a chill to the statement. “She came
out of the assize court, drifted down the high road, found she had
nowhere to go and pitched herself in a horsepond. There was nothing left
for her at all, you see. The Victorians didn’t waste time and money
getting discredited people to write newspaper confessions and as an
ex-employer old Terence Kinnit wouldn’t have stirred a finger. Kinnit
philanthropy always has an end product.”

The bitterness of the sneer in the hitherto casual voice was so
unexpected that it sounded like a snarl in the quiet room. Mr. Campion
stared at the speaker through his round spectacles. Toberman laughed,
his full mouth disconcertingly unsteady and reproachful.

“I’m the first of my family not to be grateful,” he announced. “I used
to be an angry young man and now I’m a moaning middle-aged one. I’m the
last of the Tobermans and the first of them to see the Kinnits for what
they must have been all the time—a bunch of natural sharks masquerading
as patronising amateurs.” He broke off abruptly. “What I need is a
drink,” he said. “Whenever I get unpleasantly sober I clamber up on this
boring old hobby horse. The Kinnits are a depressing family. Old Terence
must have been typical. He got my great-grandfather out of his
particular spot of bother. They used to spell bankrupt b . . . . . . t
in those days and he lent his name and a great deal of his money to our
Auction Rooms. We remained the auctioneers and the Kinnits kept their
amateur status as connoisseurs who did a spot of genteel dealing on the
side. That’s the Kinnit method; take in lame ducks, don’t ask too much
about them but make devoted slaves of them ever after. Old Terence
hadn’t asked for any reference when he took Thyrza on; that too emerged
at the trial. She asked very little and he was sorry for her. You can
hear every Kinnit who ever lived in that little phrase.”

Mr. Campion turned away idly from the china cabinet and allowed his
attention to be caught by a collection of enamelled buttons displayed in
a glass-topped table little bigger than a dinner plate. When he spoke
his tone was casual but the listening Julia, who had only his voice to
go upon, realised that he had at last perceived the opening for which he
had been waiting.

“Which gets under your skin most? The patronage or the amateurism?” he
enquired with misleading fatuity.

“The ruddy wealth!” said Toberman, speaking the truth and being amused
by it. “Terence Kinnit spent a fortune ruining this place in the biggest
possible way—he panelled quite two square miles of wall space with
pseudo-Tudor plywood for one thing—but it didn’t break him as it ought
to have done, because he was able to pay for the lot by instructing us
to auction off just a portion of the magnificent stuff he found and
recognised in the ruins. The original builders had not only imported
their skilled labour from Italy but their ‘garden ornaments’ as well.
Classic marbles, old boy, which are now in half the museums in Europe.
No one recognised them but Terence. I’ve never forgiven his ghost for
that!” He took a deep breath and his dark eyes were briefly ingenuous.
“And why did he do it in the first place?” he demanded. “All because
some silly little bit he’d taken into his house ‘out of generosity
because she was cheap’ had got him into a scandal which had to be
smoke-screened. He bought the local folly and turned it into a palace to
give the neighbours something else to talk about!” He grinned and his
sophistication returned. “You think I’ve got a chip on my shoulder,
don’t you? Well, so I have, and let me tell you I’ve got a cracking
great right to it.”

Mr. Campion coughed apologetically. “I do beg your pardon,” he said
hastily. “I had no idea you felt so strongly. I imagined that as you
spent so much time at the Well House that you . . .”

“Thought myself one of them?” Toberman sounded both irritated and
ashamed. “I do, I suppose, when I’m _not_ thinking. I like old Eustace.
I ought to. The man has behaved like a rich uncle to me ever since I
remember. Both he and Alison treat me as if I were a nephew and I use
the Town house whenever I want to. Why shouldn’t I? Everybody else has.
They’ve got a South African relation there now . . . a humourless woman
cousin and her female help. I’ve been ‘taken-in-and-done-for’ like the
rest of the outfit and I happen to resent it whilst being too darn lazy
to do anything about it. Yet the whole thing is a paradox, because if
anyone has a right to inherit from the Kinnits I have. At least I’m not
a stray.” Again the bitterness behind the contradictory outburst was
quite remarkable. He noticed it himself for he flushed and smiled
disarmingly.

“Do I talk too much because I drink too much or the other way round? I
never know,” he said hastily. “We’ll go and hunt up some liquor in a
moment. There usually is some alcohol concealed upon the premises if one
organises a search. Forgive me, Campion, but I’m still reeling under the
shock of a discovery I ought to have made twenty years ago. When it came
to me the other day I was knocked out, not by its staggering
obviousness, but by the fact that I of all people was the one person who
knew about it and yet hadn’t recognised it in all that time. Hang it
all, I saw it happen!”

It was obvious, both to Mr. Campion and to Julia still concealed upon
the other side of the room, that he was about to make a confidence and
also that it was one he had become in the habit of making recently.

“It was when the rumour first broke that young Timothy had landed the
Laurell girl,” he announced devastatingly. “I don’t know why but that
got me down in a very big way. Why should a man who is darn lucky to
inherit one fortune suddenly have the nerve to marry another? I was
thinking about the unfairness of it all when the blinding truth about
that young man suddenly hit me between the eyes. Tell me, Campion,
you’re a knowledgeable chap, who do you think he is?”

“Eustace Kinnit’s adopted son.” Mr. Campion spoke cautiously, but Julia
could hear that he was interested.

“Everybody knows that, but you assumed he was also his own natural son,
didn’t you? Either his own or his brother’s, the original Timothy’s?
Everybody has always thought that.”

Mr. Campion said nothing.

“Well, he wasn’t,” said Toberman. “That’s what Eustace let everyone
believe, the romantic old so-and-so! That was the view of the whole of
London and probably of the boy himself. Certainly that is what my old
father thought. He told me about it before he died, as if it was some
dreadful family secret, and I believed him, that was the extraordinary
thing. I believed him although I was the one who knew the truth if I’d
been old enough to understand it then.” The expression on his highly
coloured face was wondering. “Imagine that!” he said.

The thin man’s pale eyes were misleadingly blank as he turned towards
the speaker.

“You suddenly remembered something about Tim Kinnit when you heard of
the proposed engagement?” he enquired, leading him gently back to the
main subject.

“Yes.” The miraculous enlightenment of the moment of discovery was still
fresh to Toberman. “I was having a drink with someone, Eckermann of the
Brink Gallery as a matter of fact. He mentioned the engagement and
referred to the adoption and asked me which of the Kinnit brothers the
boy really belonged to. I said, ‘Oh, the younger one, the Timothy who
was killed in Spain’ and Eckermann said ‘Then young Timothy must be
considerably over twenty-two mustn’t he?’ This foxed me because I knew
he wasn’t, and for the first time I worked it out and I realised that
Timothy must have been born just about the beginning of the world war,
long after the Spanish affair. And then I _was_ puzzled because I could
recall that year preceding the outbreak. I was ten and my people had the
wind up after the Munich fiasco and I was pushed out of London and into
the country down here. Eustace was ill. He was in hospital for seven or
eight months and then he came down to recuperate. I remember him and I
remember the war preparations here, the fire drill and the gas masks and
the reception station for evacuees from the East End of London. Alison
was in the thick of it—she would be! Eustace, being an invalid,
pottered about in the library doing the paperwork and blubbing over the
newspapers while I ran loose like a tolerated mongrel pup round his
feet. As I was talking to Eckermann the other day I remembered an
incident which had meant nothing to me as a child but which was,
suddenly, utterly enlightening to my adult mind. The truth hit me like a
bullet and I _knew_ how young master Timothy, darling of all the
Kinnits, Totham, Oxford, heiress-hunter, and Success Boy came into the
family. He was abandoned here by some slut of a slum mother, Campion.
Eustace just scooped him up in a typically arrogant Kinnit way and gave
him the name which happened to be uppermost in his mind—‘Timothy
Kinnit,’ after his young brother killed in the Spanish war. After all it
cost him nothing, and since the whole world was in flames at the time
and no one’s chances of survival were worth a damn he didn’t appear to
be risking very much.” All the jealousy and resentment of a lifetime
flickered in the small brown eyes as he confronted the other man with
the statement.

Mr. Campion’s little laugh sounded scandalised.

“Did you actually _say_ this to Eckermann?” he enquired.

“I did and I’ve no doubt he repeated it.” Toberman was defiant. “I may
have told one or two other people as well, and I’m telling _you_ now,
aren’t I? It probably is a silly thing to do but the whole idea has
shaken me. I’ve known it, you understand, I’ve known it without knowing
it all my life. Besides,” he added with an abrupt descent to the
practical, “I don’t envisage anybody serving me with a writ for slander,
do you? It’s true.”

“Wouldn’t you have a lot of difficulty proving it?”

“I don’t think so.” He was quietly obstinate. “The fact which misled
everybody—the people like my father, for instance—was that the kid had
a ration book and an identity card in the name ‘Timothy Kinnit’ long
before Eustace adopted him. I remember Father commenting on it to Mama,
and I remember not being able to understand what the hell they were
getting at. It was only when I was talking to Eckermann that I suddenly
remembered the incident which explains all that. One day just after the
war started I was in the library across the corridor here, sitting on
the floor looking at some back numbers of the _Sphere_ I’d found, and
Eustace was at the desk filling in what must have been the famous
‘Householder’ form of ’39. It was the first census of its kind and it
was on the information gathered by it that the identity cards were
issued. Once you were on that form you had a right to live in Britain
and it was made pretty clear that the converse applied. You were in the
services, no doubt, but I wasn’t. I remember it vividly.”

Mr. Campion nodded. He seemed afraid of breaking the flow but there was
little chance of that.

“Each householder in the entire country had to put down the name of
every living soul who slept under his roof on a certain night,” Toberman
said. “That was how the census was taken at such tremendous speed.
Eustace had the devil of a job because not only was the place crammed
with staff from the London office and their families, but also with
official and unofficial evacuees from the East End, the residue of three
or four hundred of them who’d been hurried out in the first panic—They
nearly all went back afterwards but in those first months the
countryside was packed with townsfolk all camping in other people’s
houses. Old Eustace made very heavy weather of the form and insisted
that each person should appear before him. They had to come in batches
of twelve and he’d stop and explain to each lot how important it all
was. It took all day. The evacuee mothers with children came last and
when he thought it was all done Mrs. Broome came trotting in with a
bundle saying, ‘Don’t forget Baby, sir!’ And Eustace didn’t look up but
said, ‘What’s its name?’ and she said ‘I don’t know, sir. The young lady
has gone back to London to get some of her things and I’m minding him. I
just call him Baby.’”

He paused and laughed. “I remember that particularly. It was a catch
phrase with me after that. ‘I just call him Baby.’ Eustace was so wild
with her too. He wanted to get the work done. If the child spent the
night in the house he’d have to be entered, he said, and ‘If he hasn’t
got a name by tomorrow, Mrs. Broome, we’ll have to give him one.’”
Toberman’s voice died away in the strange timeless quiet of the
insulated room and he turned away to look out of the window at the
dancing leaves.

“That was it, you see,” he said presently. “The mother didn’t return.
Knowing that the kid had got to have papers, Eustace gave him a name to
go on with and after that I suppose one thing led to another. I don’t
remember him after that until he was adopted and going to a prep school.
My father was scared of the East Coast and packed Mother and me off to
Wales.”

Mr. Campion did not speak at once.

“They were exaggerated times,” he said at last. “Confusing too,
especially to a child, but you’ve got no evidence of this little
fantasy, you know. It’s not a very . . . well, a very _good_ story, do
you think? To tell, I mean.”

“I shall tell it if I feel like it.” Toberman’s truculence was
unabashed. “One of the enormous advantages of not being a Kinnit is that
I can be as ‘off-white’ as I like. I’ve no code to live up to. I think
young Tim is a bore and I think he’s had a good deal more than his share
of the gravy, so why shouldn’t I tell the facts about his origin if it
gives me any satisfaction? Everything else has come to him gold-lined
and free! The father of that girl of his must be worth a million. A
_million_. And she’s the one and only child.”

“But you’ve no proof at all of this tale about him!”

“Ah, but Truth has a way of emerging.” Toberman was ponderous in a
besotted fashion. “Eustace probably won’t talk and Alison will back him
up, but you can bet your life that Ma Broome would chatter if a
newspaper offered her enough money. She must know all about it. There’s
a rumour that the girl’s father has stopped Tim’s engagement already.
That means that there’s a press story there, and if I go on telling my
little anecdote some gossip writer will arrive at the big idea all by
himself and come beetling down here with a cheque book. Then we shall
get the human angle. _Foundling and Heiress. Who Abandoned Tiny Tim?_”
He chuckled at his own joke.

“You’re going to hand me the one about it not mattering to anyone in
these enlightened times where in hell he came from or who his parents
were,” he remarked. “You may be right but in my opinion the news is
going to shake up the wonderboy himself considerably, and that’s the
angle which interests me.” He met the other man’s eyes and shook his
head. “He’s had it too easy,” he added, as if he were passing a fair
judgment with reluctance. “Far too easy altogether.”

Mrs. Broome burst into the room so suddenly that there could be no doubt
that she had been listening at the door. She was in a highly explosive
state. Her cheeks were bright with anger and her eyes were wet. She came
forward across the rugs, moving very swiftly but taking very short
steps, and she glanced round her for the hidden girl with no subterfuge
at all so that both men looked about them also. Julia, who could not see
her, did not move and the furious woman turned to Toberman.

“Do you want any tea? . . . sir,” she said without hoodwinking anybody.

Toberman stood looking at her. He was giggling slightly and wore the
sorry anxious expression of one caught red-handed.

“I did say they’d have to offer a lot of money before you’d talk,
Broomie,” he said feebly.

Mrs. Broome began to cry and whatever Mr. Campion had envisaged it was
not this. Everything he had ever heard about his sex’s terror of
feminine tears rushed back into his mind in sudden justification. Mrs.
Broome was a woman who wept like a baby, noisily, wetly, and with
complete abandon. The noise was fantastic.

“Be quiet!” said Toberman flapping a hand at her idiotically. “Be quiet!
Be quiet!”

“I wouldn’t sell Timmy!” Her extraordinary statement was mercifully
almost incoherent. Her handkerchief was already sodden. “You ought not
to say such things, you ought not to tell such lies, you’re jealous of
him, you always were. He was lovely and you were always an ugly little
thing, and you had that tiresome weakness and I was thankful when you
went to Wales.” The incredible words came churning out of the wide-open,
quivering mouth in a mass of water and misery. Toberman threw up his
hands in terror.

“Shut up!” he shouted at her. “Shut up! I’m sorry, I didn’t mean it.”

Mrs. Broome continued to weep but not quite so loudly. As a spectacle
she was unnerving, her face and her drowned eyes red as blood. Both men
stood before her temporarily helpless.

“You said yourself that Mr. Eustace didn’t look at me.” The words were
clear but incomprehensible.

“What the hell are you talking about?” Toberman was near panic and his
roughness produced another burst of sobbing.

“You said it yourself!” Mrs. Broome bawled in her rage and grief. “Of
course I was listening! I had a right to if you were going to tell lies
about me. You said it yourself, I heard you. Mr. Eustace didn’t look at
me.”

“When, for God’s sake?”

“When I brought Timmy in to him and he asked his name.”

Toberman stared at her stained face. Incredulity and delight were
concentrated in his eyes.

“Do you hear that, Campion?” he demanded. “Do you hear what she says? It
_was_ Timothy! I was right on the bull’s-eye.” He seemed astounded by
his good fortune. “She’s admitted it. The mother went off and left him,
and Eustace gave him the first name that came into his head.”

“Oh no, no! That’s not what I said. You’re putting words in my mouth.
Mr. Eustace didn’t _look_ at me. That was how I knew.” The last word
rose to a wail which could not be ignored.

“What did you know?” Mr. Campion’s soft authoritative voice penetrated
the protective blanket of noise with which she had surrounded herself.
Her tears vanished like an infant’s and she turned to him with some of
her normal gossipiness.

“I knew Baby was either Mr. Eustace’s poor dead brother’s or his own
little son, being slipped home quietly under cover of all the other
kiddiewiddies in the house,” she announced, meeting his eyes with a
stare of such earnest romanticism that he was set back on his heels by
it. “It was a very terrible _time_, sir, and people were frightened. It
stands to reason that if he’d got to give a home from the bombs to all
those other children, naturally he’d think of his own flesh and blood.”
She sighed and a shrewder expression appeared upon her tear-stained
face. “I daresay it suited him. He may not have known how his sister was
going to take to the idea of a baby. Maiden ladies are maiden ladies,
you know, some more than others. They’re not like us married girls. I
knew at once, of course, because he didn’t look at me when he asked who
Baby was. People never look at you when they’re telling fibs, do they?”

She delivered the final remark as if it were a statement of scientific
fact. Mr. Campion considered her thoughtfully. She believed it, he saw,
literally and obstinately, and always had. Therefore, since she could
never have kept completely silent about anything, this version must be
the one upon which young Timothy Kinnit had been brought up. He found he
was becoming very sorry for the young man.

Toberman was laughing. “So the next day when you told Eustace that the
mother hadn’t returned he filled in the name on the form and Timothy got
his ration book and identity card. That’s your story, is it?”

“No it isn’t!” Mrs. Broome began to roar again. “I don’t talk, Mr.
Basil. I was trained as a children’s nursie and nurses have to learn to
keep little secrets. Where would _you_ be if they didn’t? Embarrassed
every day of your life! You think you’ve made me say something but you
haven’t! Times have changed let me tell you. As long as a boy has a home
behind him no one’s going to ask what church his mother and father got
married at. Besides, you’re quite wrong about one thing. It wasn’t
Timmy’s mummie who brought him down here!”

“How could you possibly tell that?” said Toberman airily. The man was
elated, Campion noted; above himself with gratification.

“A young girl with a new baby. Well of course I could!” An angry blush
added to the conflagration already burning in the tear-wet face and
Toberman had the grace to appear disconcerted.

“What was her name, anyway?”

Mrs. Broome threw up her hands at his obtuseness. “If anyone had been
able to remember _that_ it would have saved a lot of trouble when we
came to getting him adopted properly for Totham School,” she said with a
tartness which hinted at considerable argument at some time in the past.
“No one who wasn’t there at the start of the war seems to be able to
remember what that panic was like before the bombing began. _Hundreds_
of mothers and babies had been crying through the house. They were all
supposed to be labelled but half the tickets had been lost and the
babies had sucked the writing off the ones that _were_ still fastened.
Nine out of ten of the girls wouldn’t give their names in case they were
asked to pay something and we were all frightened out of our wits
anyhow.” She paused and her devastating streak of commonsense reappeared
like a flash of sunlight in the rainstorm. “If you ask me, it’s a
miracle dozens of kiddiewiddies weren’t left all over the place!” she
said. “But they weren’t. Mothers love their babies whatever you may
think, Mr. Basil, and so do fathers too. Mr. Eustace knew what he was
doing all right but I guessed he didn’t want the subject brought up, and
nor it was until Miss Alison discovered that the baby I was minding at
our cottage wasn’t any relative of mine or Mr. Broome’s. After that
there was a lot of talk in the family.” She dropped her eyes modestly.
“It wasn’t my place to know what went on but I believe Miss Alison
caused a lot of enquiries to be made. But she came round in the end and
little Timmy softened her heart. Of course there wasn’t much else she
could do,” she added with the now familiar change of mood. “The raids
had started by that time and the whole London district had gone
completely. Only dust and litter left, they said. Not a wall standing.
They never knew how many hundreds were killed.”

“They found the road he came from?” Toberman pounced on the admission.

Mrs. Broome gave him a warning glance. “They found the district where
the buses which brought the evacuees were _supposed_ to start from,” she
said stiffly, “but because of the upset at the time some of them went
off early from their garages and never went to the street at all. They
just picked up mummies and babies on the way. Of course I never thought
Timmy came in a bus at all. He and his nanna came in a car, I expect,
and just mingled with the others, as one might say. That’s my idea.”

“It would be! Complete fanciful idiocy! Where was this district?
Somewhere in the East End?”

“Hush!” Mrs. Broome glanced round her involuntarily and Toberman
suddenly comprehended the situation.

“What _is_ all this? Who’s here?” He stepped out into the room and
looked about him for a hiding place. “Come on,” he said loudly. “Come
out whoever you are!”

“No, no! Be quiet Mr. Basil. Mind your own business, do. Come along to
the other room and I’ll tell you . . . I’ll tell you what you want to
know.”

“Who is it? This is damn silly! Come out!” Toberman was advancing
towards the long window curtains.

Mrs. Broome, who suspected the same hiding place, threw in her ace card
to delay him.

“It was Turk Street, Ebbfield . . . but when they came to enquire about
Timmy it was all gone.” She was too late. The man had ceased to listen
to her. He had investigated one set of hangings and was advancing upon
another.

On the far side of the room Julia slid quietly to her feet and came out
from the fireplace alcove.

“Here I am,” she said. “I’m sorry, but I was trying to get away from
you. Does it matter? Hello, Mr. Campion.”

Toberman stopped in his tracks. His smile broadened and his eyes began
to dance.

“The little lady herself! You’re very like your photographs, Miss
Laurell. Well, this is fascinating! It’s going to be a better press
story than I thought!”




                                   4
                          “Above at a Window”


“Julia? Me.”

Over the telephone Timothy’s voice sounded older, more male and somehow
more rough than when there was the rest of him present to soften the
effect. “You got the message and you’re quite alone?”

“Quite. Completely by myself. What is it? What’s happened?” Julia was
frightened and the medium did not help her to conceal it. “You can say
anything you like. As soon as you told Mrs. Broome what you wanted she
plugged the phone in up here and I think she’s sitting on the stairs in
the hall keeping guard. What is it, Tim? Is it that you won’t be able to
get down here tonight?”

He was silent for a moment before he said abruptly: “Where exactly are
you? Where has she put you? What room?”

“Oh I’m not in that white _bedchamber_.” Laughter flickered briefly
through the anxiety in her voice. “I’m in the one your Uncle Eustace has
when he comes down on business. It’s the little one facing East with the
heavenly ceiling and the wall of books behind the couch with eagles’
feet. It’s utterly secret; we can say anything. The light is out and
there’s a moon like a new penny pouring in over the fruit trees. I’m on
the hearthrug in front of a special fire Mrs. Broome made for us. It’s a
green wood and it’s burning blue.”

“Oh.” She thought he laughed. “‘Ash when’s green is fire for the Queen.’
She told you the rest of the rhyme I suppose?”

“_‘Ash in its pride, Ash for the bride’?_ Yes, she did. She’s
relentless, isn’t she? And very sweet. So gloriously enthusiastic. I
think she must have put me in here because of the nightingales. Can you
hear them? They’re bellowing. Listen. ‘Eternal passion, eternal pain’
. . . Oh darling, darling. What has happened? Tim, you haven’t let Daddy
talk you out of anything? Tell me. Tell me quickly before I’m sick.”

“I’m trying to.” He was unnaturally controlled. “Listen. I’m not coming
down. Listen, Julia. Listen to me before you say anything. First of all,
and this isn’t the important thing, Fleet Street seems to be on to us.
Three papers have telephoned since teatime. Eustace has had calls too
and I’ve just heard from him that somebody turned up at Well House
asking questions. They want to know if it’s true that you are at Angevin
and if I’m joining you, and if the wedding is on or if we’re eloping.”

“Where are you?”

“At your father’s house, locked in his study. The key’s on my side of
course!”

“I see.”

“You don’t, you know. It isn’t anywhere near as simple as that.” He
sounded grimly helpless. “The newspapers don’t matter much. As long as
we’re apart there’s nothing they _can_ say. I don’t know who gave us
away and I don’t see why it should be of the faintest interest to
anyone, except that everything to do with your father is news. However,
that isn’t the real point. I’ve got something more important to say and
that’s why I’m making all this hooey about the call.”

“You’re not making a hooey!” She was fighting with tears. “If you hadn’t
telephoned I’d be _dead_. That beastly little man Basil Toberman gave us
away. He arrived here this afternoon and found me. He practically told
me he was going to tell on us, and the man who was with him, who is a
vague, pleasant sort of person called Campion, took him away hastily but
I expect he escaped. That’s how the newspapers know. I could kill him.”

“Basil? He didn’t mean it. He’s not worth hanging for. He’s just a silly
old drunk.” Timothy was disinterested rather than unconvinced. “He may
have let something out. It’s a pity he saw you but he wouldn’t have the
essential drive to become an informer!”

“But Tim. . . .” Her voice broke. “I’ve been so afraid of something like
this happening. I’ll get into the car at once and come to London. I
think I’ll suffocate unless I see you soon. It’s looking forward to you
so much, I suppose.”

“Be quiet, darling.”

“Why, for Heaven’s sake? It’s only to be expected. All the books warn
one about that.”

“Sweetie! Be quiet. I can’t bear it. Be quiet and listen to me. I’ve
something to tell you that’s important to me. I’ve learnt something
today which has shattered me. If I know you, you won’t care about it one
way or the other but I do.”

She could not help interrupting his shaking voice. The snapping fire,
the dreaming light streaming in through the window, and the reckless
outpouring from the birds, had created an atmosphere which was
overpowering.

“You should be here! You should be talking here!”

“I can’t! That’s what I’m trying to tell you. This thing makes a hell of
a difference. You’ve got to try to understand me, Julia.”

“Are you talking about you being brought here as a baby by some
evacuees?” The statement was out before she realised its danger and she
went on, clumsily cruel in her helplessness. “Because if so you’re being
idiotic. Suppose it was true. What would it matter or what difference
could it make to anybody? And if it isn’t—”

“_Where_ did you hear this?”

The entirely new note in his voice threw her into panic. She was crying
as she answered obediently.

“Basil Toberman was telling Mr. Campion and they didn’t know I was
listening. He seems to have been telling everybody because the penny
only just appears to have dropped with him. He’s jealous of you marrying
someone who might inherit some money. But you mustn’t let it matter, you
mustn’t let anything matter. It’s you and me, Tim, tonight and always.
You and me.”

“Old Basil! So that’s where it’s coming from! Your father says he got it
from his club a week ago. He wrote Alison and she replied. That’s how it
happened.” For a moment Timothy had forgotten Julia. The practical
mechanism of the betrayal absorbed his attention until dismay overcame
him once more. “I can’t believe it of Basil. If he knew, why didn’t he
tell me years and years ago? We’ve known each other always.” There was a
pause and then he said briefly: “I’m sorry you should have heard it from
him.”

“I didn’t exactly.” She was trying to save him. “It was Nanny Broome who
supplied the actual information.”

“Oh God!” The cry came over the telephone. “It really is true then.”

“Oh, don’t worry about it. It happened twenty years ago at least.”

“Does she say it _is_ so?”

“Well, she isn’t very clear. She never is, is she? But it’s obvious.”
Julia took hold of herself and began to think again but it was too late.
The chemistry by which love kept waiting is distilled to acid had
produced its poison on her tongue and touched him. She heard his sigh.

“It was never obvious to me. I just thought I was a bastard.” He spoke
lightly and the words were as brittle as icicles.

“Oh don’t. Don’t. I didn’t mean it like that. If I could only see you
and hold you. This is like talking to you out of a window. I’ll come to
London now. Where shall I find you? Tell me, tell me quickly.”

Julia was trying to smother him into warmth again. She was speaking on a
single note and the tears were hot in her eyes. “Wait for me.”

“No. Stay where you are.”

In spite of the discouraging words she was comforted. At least there was
contact between them again.

“Are you coming down here tomorrow?”

“No.”

There was silence. “All right,” she said at last.

“Look, darling.” She could hear that he had moved closer to the
instrument. “Julia. Understand, darling. Try. It isn’t that I’ve given
my word to your father or let him come between us or anything like that,
but I’ve had a hell of a shock and for my _own_ sake I can’t make any
move, or do anything—anything irrevocable until I’ve found out. It’s
breaking my heart but I can’t, can I? You do understand, don’t you?”

“Found out what?” She was appalled to find herself so lonely and out of
touch.

“Who I am.” He seemed to find her stupidity extraordinary. “Isn’t it
natural? I’ve been thinking I’m a Kinnit ever since I’ve thought at all
and now suddenly I find out I’m not. Naturally I want to know who I am.”

“Does it matter?” Fortunately she was too choked to say the words aloud.
When she could articulate she said pathetically: “To me you’re only
you.”

“Bless you!” His laugh was unsteady. “It may take a little time, I’m
afraid, but your father and dear old Eustace who is reproaching himself
like someone out of the Old Testament are joining forces and helping me
to get the thing cleared up once and for all. We’re all three completely
in the picture and they’re both on our side. They want us to be happy.”

“Do they?”

“I’m certain of it.” She could hear from his brisk confidence that the
thing she had dreaded without recognising it had happened, and that the
energy which she had been promised and for which she was living that
night had been diverted from her to meet this new demand.

“And that’s why,” he went on quickly, “I shouldn’t mention Basil
Toberman to either of them until you’re sure he meant it.”

“But I _am_ sure. I heard him. He hates you. He wants to do you harm.
He’s spreading the story about hoping it’ll get in the newspapers.”

“That just can’t be true.”

“He said so. I heard him.”

There was a long pause before Timothy said, “Well, I’d hate Eustace to
know that at this moment. He can’t imagine why or how the story has got
about suddenly like this. He’s fond of Basil and doesn’t realize what a
drunk he is, and if he found out he was spreading it it would hurt him
like anything. He’d be ashamed for him too. Leave Basil to me.”

“Very well.” She spoke softly. “Timothy?”

“Yes?”

“Look, I’m beginning to understand why this matters so much to you but I
don’t see why my father took the line he did. After all, as everybody
knows, he came of pretty homely stock himself and even when mother was
alive with all her grand relations he never tried to hide it.”

“Oh, it’s not the homeliness! I never met a more democratic man in all
my life. He’s a great chap. I hope I can have him for an in-law. . . .”

“But there’s no doubt of that. I’ll be of age eventually. Then we can
marry anyway.”

“Can we?”

“Oh, Tim. . . .” She was panic-stricken. “But we love each other!
Separated we’d be different people. It means all my life. _All my
life._”

“I know.” He sounded as though he did. “Mine too. There’s no question
about that. Your father knows it as well as we do but I see his point of
view. While you’re in his care he’s got to be reassured about
essentials. After that it’s up to _me_ to be reassured. He told me about
his sister.”

“Aunt Meg’s husband was a nut.”

“He was an hysteric. It wasn’t apparent until he was over thirty but his
father and grandfather had finished under restraint. Meanwhile the
wretched woman was made miserable until she died.”

“But that couldn’t be true of you!”

“Couldn’t it?”

“No, it couldn’t. Don’t be absurd. You don’t believe it for a moment.”

“Naturally I don’t but I don’t expect your uncle did either when he was
my age. That isn’t the only thing. There are other diseases one doesn’t
want in a parent. Hideous things that only come out in the kids. And
there’s other things as well. Tendencies, weaknessess. They may none of
them matter, but golly! One wants to know what they are. You do agree to
that? You do see, darling, don’t you?”

“I see that between them all they’ve implanted a great doubt in your
mind,” she said bitterly. “I see you’ve got to know _now_. That’s what
Basil Toberman’s done for you.”

“That’s what poor old Eustace thinks he has done for me out of sheer
kindliness and romanticism and it’s driving him round the bend. You’ve
got to help, Julia. We’ve got to keep apart until the chatter’s died
down and the papers lose interest. Your father is insistent on that and
he’s right. I see he’s right. You do too, don’t you?”

The appeal produced sudden physical pain in her chest and she gulped
like a child.

“Tim. Tim, listen. This may strike you as being absolutely crazy but
it’s an idea Nanny Broome had when . . . when she thought we were going
to spend the night here. I know it’s ridiculous and naïve and all that
but it would comfort me now. I’d like it. She suggested we went to the
old Rev-Ben and got betrothed—more than engaged, somehow. It wouldn’t
mean anything except to us. Then I’d know that we really were going to
marry some day.”

“Oh, darling!” His exasperation came over the wire more vividly than any
other emotion. “You haven’t understood a word I’ve said. That’s the
whole point. Something may emerge which may prevent me from marrying you
or anybody. The chances are remote but I’ve got to be sure.”

“But whatever you discover, if I still want you—?”

“Then it will be up to me to decide whether I can let you take the risk.
We’ll have to wait until we get there. We owe that to everybody
concerned.”

“Everybody concerned!” Her physical disappointment lent her tone
savagery. “You’re thinking of everybody. Your silly uncle and my father
and even Mr. Toberman, but you’re not thinking about me. You’re
forgetting _me_!”

“My God, girl, don’t you see I’m trying to!” His cry was as old as
civilisation. “You may have been disappointed but what the hell do you
think it’s been like for me? Don’t be silly, darling. And for God’s sake
shut up and stay away until I’m human again.”

Julia hung up involuntarily. The movement was as spontaneous as if she
had merely turned her back. The sudden breaking of the link between them
was so violent that around her the room sang and tingled with shock.

She took off the receiver at once but only the continuous throb of the
empty wire greeted her.




                                   5
                             Off the Record


“This place is yet another example of modern jokesmanship,” Mr. Campion
remarked as he steered Julia across the splendid marble floor to the
dining room of Harper’s Club in Davies Street.

“It’s rather like a beautiful Inverness cloak one has inherited. Much
too good to hide away, so one wears it instead of an overcoat and
pretends it’s an amusing new fashion.” He pushed open the mellow
mahogany door and they entered a vast Georgian room with a cornice like
a wedding cake. “This was the late Lord Boat’s town house,” he went on.
“He had a butler called Harper who was with him for forty years. When
old Boat died the title became extinct and Alf Pianissimo, the caterer,
bought up the property and rights in Harper. He pensioned him and even
had the old man about the place for a while until he drove the waiters
up the wall and got Alf in trouble with the Union. At the moment it’s
very pleasant and quiet and as good a place for luncheon as anywhere. I
chose it today because Charles Luke likes it and I particularly wanted
to get him here so that he meets you and gets interested in our
problem.”

His pleasant voice flowed on as he conducted her to an alcove on the far
side of the room where a round table was set for three.

“A Superintendent C.I.D. of the Metropolitan Police can find out almost
anything on earth if he wants to,” he went on, stowing his long legs
under the table and smiling at her, “but he’s hemmed in by protocol. If
we go to him officially he has to proceed officially—and we don’t
really want that, do we?—so I thought we might tap discreetly on the
back door.”

He was watching her while he spoke and it went through his mind that she
was genuinely beautiful with her black silk hair and eyes like blue
glass and that, more rarely still, she was elegant in a puppyish way,
naturally graceful and packed with promise. She was uncomfortably young,
of course. Still at that most alarming stage when sophistication and
naïveté appeared to take turns so that there was no telling what might
offend her unbearably or what else, much more difficult, she might take
in her stride. He noticed her pretty blue-veined hands. Their short
nails were innocent of varnish and she was wearing a ring on her
engagement finger. It was a small signet, a schoolgirl’s ring. He could
see the habitual impression of it on another finger on the other hand.
The naïve hopefulness of such a move touched him and reminded him for
some reason of something he ought to tell her about Luke.

“He’s a rather recent widower, by the way,” he observed. “It’s one of
those dreadful stories. His wife made a complete fiasco of having a
child. She didn’t call for help, and died. The baby girl lived and is
being cared for by his old mother who looks after him too. I mention it
because it’s as well to know these things in case one drops bricks.”

“Of course.” She was looking at him in horror. “What an extraordinary
woman. She was old, I suppose.”

“Prunella? Oh no, not old at all.” Campion was frowning as if he was
visualising someone who had worried him. “She was in the twenties. The
last of the Scroop-Dorys. She had that family’s face: high round
forehead and hooded eyes like something in a Gothic cathedral. I can’t
imagine how she could have been both so idiotic and so stoic. She didn’t
want to be a nuisance I suppose and there was no one there to tell her
not to be so silly!”

Julia’s youthful eyes were faintly amused by his exasperation.

“Poor girl, anyway,” she said gently. “Not an awfully suitable wife for
a policeman.”

“We all thought not.” Mr. Campion was trying to be non-committal and
sounding like every disapproving family friend who had ever existed.
“Charles was in love with her, though. Her death hit him like a bullet.”

There was silence for a moment and the girl shivered suddenly.

Mr. Campion was contrite and he began to chatter.

“You’ll like him,” he said. “He talks like a dynamo and does a sort of
hand-jive all the time by way of added emphasis but he’s tremendously
sound. He’s a great natural judge of quality in anything, too. That
seems to be a gift all on its own.”

“Oh I know,” she said quickly, grateful for the change of subject.
“Timothy’s Uncle Eustace is like that. He’s a connoisseur of
eighteenth-century pictures, books, and silver, but he also seems to
know by instinct, or so Timothy says, about modern stuff which isn’t
really in his province at all and which one might expect he’d rather
hate. Do you know him?”

“Not very well. We’ve met.”

“Have you been to the Well House where they all live?” There was colour
in her voice when she spoke about Timothy Kinnit, even remotely. “It’s
in Scribbenfields, just not quite in the City. I suppose it was one of
the first of the London suburbs and it’s frightfully ancient. You’d
never expect to find a lovely old dwelling like that in the midst of all
those warehouses. I believe there was a medicinal well there once and
the head is bricked over in one of the cellars.”

Mr. Campion appeared suitably impressed and she warmed to him. He was
very easy to talk to with those long clown lines in his pale face; a
natural goon, born rather too early she suspected.

“It was very good of you to agree to help me,” she said abruptly.

“My dear girl let’s only hope I can!” he interpolated hastily.
“Scribbenfields? Yes indeed. The whole place was a noted spa at one
time. Jacobean citizens used to ride out the two or three miles from
Whitehall to drink the waters and I fancy people still have a vague idea
that it’s a healthy district. I had a demented client once, I remember,
who actually paid a deposit on a small Epsom salts mine situated, as he
believed, under a disused tram terminus in Sheepen Road. An error, it
emerged, which was how I came into it! Tell me. When you say ‘they all
live there’ whom do you mean? Alison Kinnit, her brother Eustace, young
Timothy and sometimes Basil Toberman? Is there a resident staff?”

“No. Not as a rule. Several people come in daily but just at the moment
Nanny Broome has had to be sent for from the country to cope. There’s a
niece of the Kinnits and a help, all staying. They’re from South Africa
and tremendously wealthy. A child is ill in hospital and they’ve come to
London to see doctors. You remember Mrs. Broome, do you?”

“The woman who wept? Shall I ever forget her?” Mr. Campion spoke
fervently. “It was the first time I ever saw the Picasso painting
actually appearing in the very flesh before my bulging eyes. My goodness
she was furious with Toberman!”

“Nearly as angry as I was! A beastly, beastly man!”

The loathing in the young voice was savage and Charles Luke, coming up
behind her at that moment, caught the full flavour of it.

“Not me, I hope?” he said laughing, as Campion performed the
introductions. “Some other poor fellow.”

Julia regarded him with quick interest. She had expected the size and
the heartiness and a certain masculine splendour but Luke’s own peculiar
personality, which was catlike, was a surprise to her. He was a proud,
lonely animal for all his force and liveliness.

A waiter brought his _apéritif_ which was a small scotch and soda and as
he sipped it gratefully he sighed.

“Civilised,” he said to Mr. Campion. “Humanising.” He described a
floating motion with his long hands. “Cigars and summer days and women
in big hats with swansdown face powder, that’s what it reminds me of.”
He was entirely unself-conscious and his dark face glowed with energy
and pleasure at the picture. It was suddenly understandable how a man
with such an unlikely job should take it into his head to marry into the
Scroop-Dorys, or indeed any other family on earth if the fever took him.

“I like this pub of yours. I’d like to live here for a couple of weeks
every other year.” Although he was grinning he was not entirely joking
and his narrow black eyes, which had brows like circumflex accents, were
serious as he glanced across at Julia. Something about her had made him
gloomy, she was surprised to see.

“And how is the teen-age world?” he enquired abruptly, revealing his
train of thought. “All dreams and dance dresses I hope. That’s how it
ought to be. Something with a future if it’s only disillusion. Mine is
more homely country and that’s in the American sense.” He glanced at
Campion. “Some of the young thugs we’re getting in nowadays are dreaming
up weapons which would have been thought offside by the Saints and
Martyrs!” he remarked and returned to Julia. “This beastly man you were
talking about when I came in? Is this the stern father who won’t let you
marry the boy friend?”

“Of course not.” She seemed shocked and he smiled at her, amused. “How
much did Mr. Campion tell you on the telephone?” she enquired.

“Almost all, a brilliant _précis_,” murmured Campion modestly. “What I
omitted was the part played by Basil Toberman in resurrecting the tale
at this particular time.”

“Do you know he did it deliberately to harm Timothy? He _said_ he had.”
Julia spoke as though she expected Luke to find the statement incredible
and he sat listening to her, his head a little on one side. “I actually
heard him say it to Mr. Campion.”

“How extraordinary!” His lips curled despite himself. “I’m glad he’s the
‘beastly’ bloke, though. I’m sensitive about daughters who don’t revere
their Dads. My own young woman isn’t exactly respectful but she’s only
eighteen months old.” He was losing his suspicion of Julia, Mr. Campion
noted with relief, and his eyes were friendly as they rested on her
serious face. “Well, now,” he said. “What do you want to know about
young Mr. Kinnit’s birth? Where his family came from or what has
happened to it now?”

“Oh, we know he came from Turk Street, Ebbfield, but the place just
isn’t there any more. It was bombed to the ground.”

“Turk Street?” Luke glanced at Campion. “You didn’t tell me that.”

“No.” The man in the spectacles was apologetic. “The information came
from what one might perhaps call ‘other than concrete sources.’ You
haven’t met Mrs. Broome the nurse, Charles. She’s a delightful woman but
as a witness she’s a treat of a very special kind. The buses which
brought the evacuees from London were thought to have come from the Turk
Street area but there’s no proof that the boy came from there. Turk
Street had a colourful reputation at one time and I thought we’d break
all this to you when we saw you.”

Julia glanced from one man to the other.

“I didn’t know there was anything awful about Turk Street,” she said
quickly. “Mrs. Broome didn’t either. She just remembered the curious
name. How awful was it? Vice or crime or what?”

Luke continued to watch her; he was not unreservedly on her side yet.

“It was low class,” he said using the old-fashioned phrase to see if it
irritated her. “Why do you want to know about the young man’s family?”

“I don’t. Personally, I don’t care if they were T.B. infested
orangoutangs. Timothy is Timothy to me and nothing and nobody else. It’s
Tim who seems to have become completely insane on the subject. Father
wants to know about the family but Timothy is _mad_ to know.”

Luke grunted. “Why aren’t you leaving it to them? You can’t hope to
suppress anything and if it’s there they’ll find it as soon as you do.”

She met his thrusting stare steadily. “I know that but I want to be
prepared and I want to be in it.”

The Superintendent seemed satisfied for he nodded.

“Fair enough. He’s cooled a little, has he? It happens,” he added
apologetically, for the colour had come into her face and a new
shininess to her eyes. “He was all set to elope, poor lad, and got
shunted on to a new track suddenly.”

“I know.” Her voice broke, yet she had not looked away. “But so was I,
and _I_ wasn’t.”

Mr. Campion, who was sitting opposite Luke and following the
conversation with some misgiving, was unprepared for his reaction. A
spasm of pure pain flickered over his face before he smiled faintly.

“_Touché_,” he said. “Well, in that case we’ll have to do something
about it.” He gave her a wide, disarming grin. “And it wouldn’t hurt us
to get a move on instead of asking damn silly questions, would it?”

It was an unusually definite promise from anyone as punctilious as the
Superintendent so Mr. Campion led the talk into other channels and the
meal ended happily. He was not astonished to receive a telephone call
from Luke three or four days later.

“That twenty-year-old enquiry in the Turk Street area,” the
Superintendent began, the microphone blurring and vibrating under the
strain of his voice. “I haven’t discovered very much, but, as I thought,
I recollected something fairly recent which might tie up and at last
I’ve had a moment to study the file. You don’t read the _Ebbfield
Observer_, I suppose?”

“Supposition sustained, Chum.”

“All right. Don’t let it worry you. There was a paragraph in it a few
issues ago which might have interested you and, since it appeared in
print, I don’t feel I’m divulging any departmental secrets by calling it
to your notice. The headline reads ‘Model Dwelling Outrage. Lodger
Identified. Man Understood To Have Left Country.’ Got that?”

“Yes.” Mr. Campion sounded mystified. “Model Dwelling refers to that
Utility Pile down there, does it?”

“Yes. The idea is to build five more in the same enclosure—they put
them on legs like that in the hope they’ll make room for each other.
About five weeks ago there was trouble there on the top floor. An old
couple had their home broken into one night while they were down at the
local with their lodger. The place was wrecked in a very big way. When
they came in the lodger took one look at the mess and fled after
notifying the police by telephone, and the poor old lady had a stroke
and died, thereby complicating the issue considerably from our point of
view.”

“Oh!” Mr. Campion was interested. “The ‘indirect responsibility’
question?”

“Is that what it’s called?” Luke was not enthusiastic. “All I know is
that the legal bosses have suddenly got excited about any case where the
original wicked action produces some extraneous consequence besides the
one intended. In this business there was talk of a charge of murder or
manslaughter. To me it just means more homework. However, there was
considerable pressure put on our D.D.I. He is a Scot called Munday—and
he had a local demon on his shoulder as well in the shape of a
Councillor who has to raise the cash to complete the building scheme.
This lad wanted everything made sweet just a little quicker than soon.
Munday worked like a fiend and finally discovered that the missing
lodger was one of the Stalkeys.”

“Really!” Mr. Campion was gratifyingly astonished. “The detective
agency? Is that terrible old gentleman J. B. Stalkey still alive?”

“Talky the Stalker or Stalkey the Talker!” Luke’s grunt was amused. “No.
He’s gone. The angels got him at last—still pontificating no doubt.
Joe, the middle son, reigns in his stead and the other two, Ron and Reg,
do the footslogging. Reg was the mysterious lodger. He seems to have
taken one look at the damage and scarpered. It must have shaken him
because he went right out of the country. He’s looking up family
connections in Ontario now, according to Joe.”

“What was he doing in Ebbfield?”

“Munday would like to know. He’ll be waiting for him at the airport to
ask him when he comes home. All we know is that he went round from pub
to pub raising the subject of Turk Street in the old days and appeared
particularly interested in any family who was evacuated from there to
the country in the war. When I saw that in the report I wondered if he
was on the same track as yourself.”

“It has a likely smell. What does brother Joe say?”

“Nothing. Joe isn’t talking. He’s the same old sea-lawyer his father was
and he knows his rights. We’ve got no power over him. He’s an ordinary
citizen. English tecs aren’t licenced, as you know. He says he doesn’t
know what Reg was doing. He’s protecting his client, of course.” He
paused. “There’s only one other point which might be of interest and
that is, that as soon as the Councillor gathered that the crime might
have been committed in protest against an enquiry made by a private
investigator he shut down on the whole thing like a piano lid and didn’t
want to hear any more about it. That was after he’d been badgering
Munday on the telephone every half hour.”

“Odd,” Mr. Campion said slowly. “Has the D.D.I. any theory to explain
it?”

“No. But the Councillor has a home and a wife. He may just not want a
visit from the same gang of thugs. But if that’s it, I’m surprised. He
didn’t strike me as that sort of bloke. He was more the fanatical sort.
The I’ll-do-you-good-if-it-kills-us-both type of social worker.” He
laughed. “Well there it is,” he said. “All I can do at the moment, I’m
afraid. I liked the girl. They’ve got great charm when they’re honest,
haven’t they?”

If he was talking of womankind in general or a type in particular did
not appear. He rang off and after a while Mr. Campion took his hat and
went down to the East Central District where in a dusty cul-de-sac there
was an unobtrusive door whose small plate announced modestly: =J.
B. Stalkey and Sons, Enquiry Agents. Established= 1902.

He found Joe Stalkey sitting in his father’s old chair in an office
which had remained carefully unchanged since the founder of the firm had
first conceived the idea of a private detective agency having the
standing of a firm of family solicitors.

The small room contained one magnificent period bookcase, glazed above
and panelled below. It took up all one wall and against its mellow and
elegant background Stalkey the Talker had posed and impressed clients
for nearly fifty years.

Joe Stalkey had not the old man’s florid presence. The slightly harassed
expression and deprecating smile so typical of the child of an
over-forceful parent had robbed him of authority. He remained a
gangling, middle-aged man whose broad features were a little out of
alignment, as if they had been drawn by someone with an astigmatism.
When Campion came in he looked at him in open astonishment.

“This is a bit of an honour, isn’t it?” he demanded, his smile leering.
“I don’t think you’ve been in here in twenty years, have you, Mr.
Campion? What can we do for you? Any little chore however small will be
welcome, I assure you. Don’t hesitate to mention it. As long as it’s
legal and the money is safe we’re not choosey. We can’t afford it. We
haven’t had quite the advantages of some people. Do sit down, won’t you?
I have at least ten minutes before a client—”

“—Who must be nameless, steps out of a brougham with a coronet on the
door,” murmured Mr. Campion with such complete seriousness that he might
just have meant it as a compliment. “You’re very obliging. I don’t think
your father would have been so kind. He never appreciated my style, I
felt.”

The man behind the desk was regarding him cautiously. He did not
understand him and never had. He suspected bitterly that his
incomprehensible success was due to something basically unfair, such as
class or education, but was begrudgingly gratified to see him in the
office all the same.

“Help yourself,” he said. “It’s all yours.”

Mr. Campion seated himself in the client’s chair and crossed his long
legs. His hat, his gloves, and his folded _Times_ he held upon his knee.
“I wanted to see Reginald,” he said. “But I hear he’s in Canada. I
wondered if he could tell me anything about Turk Street twenty years
ago.”

The man behind the desk had large cold eyes and their glance became
fixed upon his visitor. It rested upon the narrow folded newspaper which
Campion held, with an intensity which was noticeable. It was as if he
were reading the small type of the advertisements on the outside page.

“Well?” There was nothing even impatient in Mr. Campion’s enquiry and he
was astonished to see Stalkey’s tongue moisten his lips. He had changed
colour too, and his fist, which was unusually large-boned, was not
completely steady where it lay on the desktop.

“I’ll hand it to you, you’ve got on to it very quickly.” He spoke
without meeting Campion’s eyes, letting the words slide out regretfully.
“Ron lost his temper,” he said.

Mr. Campion had no idea what he was talking about but it appeared to be
promising.

“Did he?” he murmured. “That’s always dangerous.”

“There’s no real harm done.” Joe Stalkey spoke irritably. “But of course
Ron is a big man. He’s heavier than I am and ten years younger. The kid
put up an astonishing fight but he hadn’t an earthly chance and he is in
a bit of a mess, I admit it.” His eyes narrowed suddenly. “Am I making a
monkey of myself, by any chance?”

His visitor grinned.

“We appear to have travelled somewhat quicker than sound, if that’s what
you mean,” he admitted. “Let me explain myself. I am interested in
anything I can discover about a woman and a very young baby who were
evacuated from Turk Street to an address in Suffolk on the day war broke
out in ’39. I heard today that your elder brother Reg was making the
same sort of enquiry just before he went to Canada, and I wondered if we
were all working on the same problem and, if so, whether we could pool
our resources. For an adequate consideration of course.”

“Damn!” Joe Stalkey was very angry with himself. He had coloured and his
hands were nervous.

“You chaps build such a legend about yourselves that one believes it!”
he said with unreasonable reproach. “I didn’t see how you could have got
on to this morning’s shindig, but because it was fresh in my mind I
assumed you must have done as soon as you mentioned Turk Street. You’re
the reason the Central Branch have suddenly got interested again, I
suppose? You’ve stirred them up and they’ve stirred up the police down
there and some wretched detective constable went and leaked to the kid.
That’s about it. Otherwise it wouldn’t have all happened together, would
it? A coincidence like that couldn’t have occurred otherwise. You coming
in here in the afternoon just when Ron had been tackled by the kid in
the morning. I was justified in making that mistake.”

The thin man in the hornrims leaned back.

“I’ll come clean,” he said. “I’m not with you at all. Ron is your
younger brother, isn’t he? He is carrying on Reg’s enquiries I suppose?”

“Like hell he is!” Joe Stalkey showed evidence of having a temper
himself. “That isn’t our sort of business at all, Mr. Campion. You’ve no
idea what the state of that flat was after the wrecking. I saw Reg
before he left for Canada and he was shocked, I tell you. There the
message was, you know, written right across a mirror: ‘_Go Home, Dick_.’
Like an American film. I don’t know what the younger generation is
coming to. Stalkey and Sons isn’t that kind of concern. Nice neat
evidence, clear reports, and if necessary a discreet and creditable
appearance in court, that’s all we contract for. As soon as we saw what
we were on to we walked out and stayed out. Our sort of clients aren’t
the class to get involved in _violence_!” The final word was invested
with unspeakable disgust and Mr. Campion noted the return of an old
snobbery new in his time. He was still very much at sea, however, and
was debating how to remedy it without being too outspoken when Joe
Stalkey went on.

“He says he didn’t do it, of course, and he pretends he doesn’t know who
did. It’s gang stuff pure and simple. I think the world is damned;
modern youth is quite openly against civilisation. Higher education just
makes them worse.”

Mr. Campion raised his eyebrows but ventured no comment. Instead he put
a cautious question.

“If Stalkey and Sons washed its hands of Turk Street when the flat was
wrecked and Reg went to Canada, how did Ron get into the business?”

The flush on Joe Stalkey’s unsymmetrical face deepened and his
deprecating smile appeared briefly. “The ass went to get Reg’s shoes,
can you beat it? As you probably would not know, East End repairers
charge a quarter of what one has to pay elsewhere and the work is often
much better. When Reg was down there he left a couple of favourite pairs
of shoes with some little one-man outfit and told Ron to pick them up
for him when he had a moment. Ron is a careful chap and it’s just what
he would remember, being hard on shoe leather himself. This morning he
was going that way so he telephoned to ask if the shoes were ready,
found they were, went down there. Of course the kid had been tipped off
and was waiting for him.”

Mr. Campion took a long breath.

“When you say ‘the kid,’” he began, “who?”

“You know quite well who I mean. I mean young Kinnit,” Joe said.
“There’s no point in beating about that bush in my opinion. We were
acting for his legal guardians. The aunt and father by adoption. Alison
and Eustace Kinnit. Actually we dealt with the woman. We were employed
by the family before, you see, when they were first trying to trace the
kid’s identity about fifteen or sixteen years ago. Father handled it on
that occasion but it was hopeless from the start. It was just after the
war ended and the whole area was still a shambles, records lost and
everything. Pa satisfied the court that every avenue had been explored
without result and the adoption or guardianship or whatever it was went
through and that was that.”

Mr. Campion continued to be dubious.

“You are telling me seriously that young Kinnit was responsible for
wrecking the council flat? Have you any proof of this at all?”

“I don’t want any. I don’t want anything to do with it, and don’t forget
anything I’m telling you now is off the record.”

Joe Stalkey’s face, unattractive to start with, was not improved by an
expression of obstinate prejudice. “Of course he is. Ron reports that he
is babbling about having been locked in his college at Oxford at the
hour in question, but that only proves he has some useful friends or
enough money to employ a few hooligans. What one might be able to prove
is one thing but what we know must be the truth is another. Be your age,
Campion. Who are you working for? The little lad himself?”

“No. I belong to the other side of the family. I am protecting the
interests of the girl friend.”

“Are you indeed? Quite a client!” He was openly envious. “There’s gold
in them thar quarters. Oh well, good luck to you. You’re welcome to
everything we’ve got—at the right price, of course. Happy to oblige
you. But in this particular case we don’t want to work with you. We’ve
come out and we’re staying out especially after this morning’s
performance. That kid is decadent and dangerous. It never pays to take a
youngster out of his normal environment and bring him up in something
plushy.”

“Do we know what his normal environment was? I thought that was the
object of the exercise.”

“We know he came from a vicious slum.”

“Do you? Is that established?”

Joe began to look sulky and his father’s mantle showed as far too large
for him. The old man had built his business on fact and proof and not on
this type of sophistry.

“He went to Angevin by bus with a lot of other people from Turk Street
and he was abandoned, which is a Turk Street trick if ever there was
one. He’s a violent young brute, anyhow.”

Mr. Campion rose. “I still don’t see why you connect him with the
wrecking?” he observed mildly.

“You don’t think.” Joe was didactic. “You don’t use your headpiece. I’m
sorry, but look at it. Who else stands to gain? Who else _cares_ if Reg
uncovered something about the foundling? As soon as I heard about that
message on the looking glass telling Reg to get out I saw it must be the
kid himself. It was obvious.”

“Is that really all you’ve got to go on?” Mr. Campion sounded relieved.

“It’s enough for me.” The head of Stalkey and Sons was adamant. “I don’t
go in for fancy stuff as you do, Campion. I just see the obvious when it
sticks out a mile and I get by all right. Today when the lout set on Ron
I was proved pretty right, I think.”

“I see.” Mr. Campion appeared to have no other comment. “I shall receive
a modest account from you, I suppose? Trade rates, I take it?”

Joe began to laugh. “You’ve got something,” he conceded. “The grand
manner, isn’t it? I’ll tell you what. I’ve been thinking. We might come
to something sort of reciprocal in this. You wouldn’t like to take the
boy off our hands now?”

Mr. Campion stared at him.

“Where is he?”

Joe looked uncomfortable. “Downstairs in the washroom as a matter of
fact. Don’t get excited. He’s all right but he needed cleaning up of
course, and we couldn’t very well send him home. There’s a funeral there
this afternoon, isn’t there?”

“A _funeral_?”

Joe Stalkey shrugged his loose shoulders.

“It’s in your _Times_, in the deaths there. I thought you were holding
it like that to remind me. It’s not one of the family, but he felt he
couldn’t turn up with two black eyes and a cut lip. It’s someone
employed there. There it is: ‘SAXON . . . whilst visiting this country
with her bereft friend and employer, Geraldine Telpher. Interment today
in Harold Dene Cemetery,’ etc. . . . A governess, I think the boy said
she was.”




                                   6
                      Justifiably Angry Young Man


The washroom under the old building where Stalkey and Sons had their
offices had been converted somewhat casually from what might well have
been an air-raid shelter and was in fact a wine vault, relic of more
spacious days. The ceiling was low and arched, the floor stone-flagged,
and the ventilation unsuccessful. The row of washbasins, installed about
1913, managed to look strikingly modern in the grim surroundings.

There was a rug-covered camp-bed at one end of the cavern and when Mr.
Campion entered Timothy Kinnit was seated upon it, clad only in singlet
and shorts. His blood-soaked shirt was lying on the stones before him
and when the visitor appeared he raised a battered face in which only
the fierce grey eyes were still splendid.

“Hello,” he said. “I know you. You’re Albert Campion. Surely you’re not
a part of this outfit of lunatics? Where’s that damn fool with my
clothes?” He was speaking painfully because of the swelling of his lips
but he was not sparing himself. His mood came across to Campion in a
wave. He was so angry he was out of himself altogether.

Mr. Campion glanced behind him. “I appear to be alone,” he said
pleasantly. “Joseph Stalkey has paused to speak to his brother, who is
undergoing repairs in the annex. If it’s any comfort to you he too has a
few souvenirs of the encounter. He was armed, I take it? May I look?”

The young man got up unsteadily. “My face’ll clear up,” he said, reeling
slightly as he bent towards a looking-glass. “But I don’t know if
there’s an actual hole in my skull. It’s at the back here, rather low
down. Can you see?”

“Yes. Dear me. Wait a minute. Turn to the light, can you?”

The examination was nearing completion when Joe Stalkey came in.
Nervousness had increased his restless clumsiness. His big feet splayed
awkwardly and his hands and huge wrists were prominent as he walked.

“He’s all right,” he said, making it sound as convincing as he could to
himself. “He’s all right. That’s all superficial stuff. There’s nothing
to worry about there. These things do happen.”

The man in the hornrimmed spectacles raised his eyebrows. “I’m not
surprised to hear it if your brother does the family’s errands wearing a
knuckleduster and armed with a tyre-lever,” he observed mildly.

“It’s not a tyre-lever. Just an ordinary, old-fashioned life preserver;
we all carry one.” Joe conveyed that the fact made it respectable. “Be
reasonable. A man must have some means of defending himself. Ron
expected trouble this morning; don’t forget that. He was going back into
the area. He realised that the young thugs who would wreck an old
peoples’ flat in that peculiarly brutal way merely to warn Reg off an
enquiry would be on the lookout for any return. That’s why when the
attack did come he was ready for it.”

“But there was no attack!” Timothy’s explosion was due as much to fury
at crass stupidity as to pain and outrage. “I simply walked out from
behind the counter where I was waiting, talking to the cobbler, and
asked the man if he was the chap who was making the enquiries about Turk
Street just before the war, and if so who was employing him. He went for
me with a cosh like a lunatic and naturally I defended myself.”

“But how did you get here?” Mr. Campion demanded.

“I don’t know. I went out like a light—I suppose from this wallop on my
head.”

“Ron brought him along in his car,” Joe Stalkey said, avoiding Mr.
Campion’s eyes. “He intended to turn him over to the police, naturally,
but as it turned out—”

Mr. Campion coughed. “A wallet happened to slip out of his pocket,
spilling an old envelope with his name upon it, no doubt?”

Joe’s big washed-out eyes met his own reproachfully.

“Well, things like that do occur, as you must know as well as anybody,”
he said testily. “Anyhow, you can’t blame Ron for being nervous. Reg had
simply seen the quality of that damage to the flat, and he threw up the
case and cleared out to Canada for a rest, remember. So this morning
when an attack was made on Ron he was prepared for it. You’ll never
shake him on that.”

Mr. Campion shook his head. “No, I don’t suppose one ever could,” he
admitted. “What’s the matter with Ron? Flatulence? Never mind. Where are
Mr. Kinnit’s clothes?”

“In the next room. He had a bit of a nose-bleed and they got smothered.
Ron took them to discover if anything could be done about tidying them
up. So Mr. Kinnit could go home in them, you see?”

Mr. Campion’s lips twitched. “Only too well. The error becomes more
apparent at every turn. Ron has my sincere sympathy.”

“I wish you’d all stop blethering and just get me a pair of trousers,”
Timothy said wearily. There was something of the helpless dignity of the
sick child or the very old man in his appeal. His colour was bad and he
was still very unsteady. He stood looking at Joe for a moment, debating
his next statement.

“I’ve nothing against your brother,” he said at last. “I shan’t make any
complaint. But I want the answer to my original question. Who was
employing you all? Who is trying to find out about me?”

Mr. Campion took the young man by the arm and lowered him gently on to
the bed again, and Joe came a step nearer.

“So you knew you came from Turk Street?”

“No. I knew that some evacuees went to Angevin from there. I don’t know
now that I was one of them. Who was employing your brother?”

Joe Stalkey still hesitated and it occurred to Mr. Campion that he was
showing uncharacteristic delicacy. “You’re asking us to divulge the name
of a client, you know,” Joe protested at last.

Timothy sighed. “Then there is a client.” He sounded oddly resigned. “I
went to look for Turk Street because my old nurse mentioned that name in
front of my fiancée and I got the story out of her. I found a young
bobby down there and chummed up with him and he told me a private
detective had been chased out of the district for making enquiries. He
put me on to the old man who had had the detective as a lodger and _he_
put me on to the cobbler. You say the detective was your brother, so you
can tell me what I want to know. Who is employing your family?”

Joe passed one ungainly hand over his chin.

“Well, I don’t suppose it’ll do any harm, because we’re not working for
them now,” he said. “We’re turning the whole thing in. It’s not our sort
of business at all, thank you. As a matter of fact my brother Reg was
working for Miss Alison Kinnit and Mr. Eustace Kinnit. They approached
us just before Christmas.”

The battered face of the young man on the bed grew slowly dusky red and
as slowly drained again. He was sitting forward, his head raised towards
Joe’s. His eyes were very dark.

“Are you sure Eustace was in it?”

“Of course. I saw him myself. It was my duty to warn them that there was
very little chance of us having much success. My father undertook the
original enquiry in ’44 or ’45 when the question of regularising the
position of Mr. Kinnit’s guardianship arose. My father had to confess
failure then and I have to do it again now. I don’t think you’ve got
much to worry about, young man.”

The sneer passed clean over Timothy’s head. He seemed completely
shattered.

“Twice!” he said. “Get me some clothes for Heaven’s sake, there’s a good
chap, and let me get out of here.”

He got up and staggered dangerously. Mr. Campion caught him.

“I really think you’d better come along with me,” he said. “There’s only
one expert I know of who’ll get you presentable in a reasonable time.
Joe, send your secretary for a taxi and lend us a raincoat.”

They went to Mr. Campion’s old flat in Bottle Street. The Police Station
which used to be next door had gone and time and rebuilding had changed
most of the other landmarks, but the pleasant shabby four-room hide-out
remained much as it had always been.

Timothy sat in a faded wing chair before a gas fire, Joe Stalkey’s
trench coat still covering his blood-stained clothes, and glanced dully
round walls cluttered with souvenirs. Although the apartment was only
just off Piccadilly, it was astonishingly quiet and somehow remote and
even secret in the afternoon.

The sound of a key in the lock of the door was unexpected and Mr.
Campion put his head out of the kitchen, kettle in hand.

“Lugg?”

“Ullo?” There was an upheaval in the narrow hall and the panelled wall
shuddered. The newcomer was breathless and his accent London at its
thickest.

“We have a customer.”

“Reely?” The sitting-room door opened at once and a huge old man whose
personality was as definite and obtrusive as an odour appeared in the
opening. Even in an era when individuality in dress is a cult, his
clothes were noticeable. He was wearing a hard hat of the low round kind
favoured by hunting men, and with it a black duffle coat lined with
white. His large pale face and heavy moustache were alive with interest
and curiosity. He glanced at Timothy twice; once casually, and then with
a long hard stare from small, unexpectedly shrewd eyes.

“I thought you’d bin fightin’ at first,” he remarked. “Knuckledusters,
eh? Where you been, son?”

Mr. Campion came in and gave him a brief explanation.

“Stalkey!” Lugg was contemptuous. “It was only ’is name give ’im the
idea of being a detective at all. It was a cheap ad for ’im and ’e
wouldn’t waste it. Any family more kack’anded in their trade you
couldn’t find. The ole man was nothing but a jaw-fountain and all the
children go orf ’alf cock!” He appealed to Timothy. “Wot a way to treat
a client’s nevvy. You could ’ave died and then where would they be?
Standin’ wiv the bill in their ’ands, not knowing where to send it.”

His scorn was magnificent but Timothy did not respond. He sat like a
sack, his eyes still dark and shocked. It occurred to Mr. Campion, who
was watching him, that eccentrics must be a commonplace in his young
life. It was an offbeat age into which he had been born and absurdity as
an escape-mechanism had been in fashion for some time now. The
youngster’s condition worried him a little. He was more shaken than his
physical injuries warranted. Suddenly, as if in answer to his unspoken
question, the young man glanced up at him and spoke abruptly.

“And who are _you_ working for?” he demanded. The question came out
brashly and he flushed. “I’m sorry,” he said. “I’m not trying to be
offensive and I’m helplessly grateful to you. But why are you interested
in this tatty old business of my paternity?”

The bitterness in his tone was unmistakable and the older man responded
to it involuntarily.

“My dear fellow, don’t take it like that!” he protested. “I’ll tell you
all I know, which is little enough, in a minute or two as soon as we’ve
got you patched up a bit. Meanwhile, what’s all this Joe Stalkey told me
about you being due at a funeral this afternoon?”

The sudden flicker of emotion, irritation, or perhaps even unease in the
battered face took Mr. Campion by surprise; in an instant it was wooden
again.

“No, I’m not due at it,” Timothy said. “I don’t imagine anyone expected
me to attend. I said I thought I ought not to turn up to the house in
the middle of it looking like this, though, and Stalkey agreed with me.”

“As well ’e might!” Mr. Lugg, who had removed his coat, now took off his
hat and thrust it at his patient. “See that? The idea of this is to
pertect yer ’ead from an ’orse’s ’oof. If you’re goin’ to keep stickin’
your bonce into trouble you ought to buy yerself one. I’ll give yer the
name of the place. Now let’s see this ’ere depressed area of yours. Keep
still.”

He made a long and careful exploration of the damage and finally sighed.
“Yes, well,” he said. “Ron Stalkey can say ’is prayers. ’E’s lucky ’e’s
not up before the beak for that lot.”

“How bad is it?” Mr. Campion made it clear he was consulting an expert.

“I seen wuss; and in this room. ’E’ll live ter break someone’s ’eart.
Come on into the barfroom, mate, and we’ll start the beauty treatment.”

An hour later he was still talking. Timothy, who was looking much more
like himself, was wrapped in a bathrobe of his host’s while Lugg
considered his ruined clothes.

“No,” he said regretfully, turning over the torn and blood-soaked
flannel trousers. “Not reely. Not for a funeral. It would be ’eartless
and not quite the article. ’Oose is it? Someone yer know?”

“Hardly at all. She was a stranger. Just an elderly woman staying in the
house.”

The young man appeared to be defending himself and Mr. Lugg’s bright
eyes narrowed.

“Yus?” he encouraged. “Wot’s ’er name?”

“Miss Saxon. I hardly knew her, I’m afraid, but the funeral was
announced in the _Times_ this morning. Joe Stalkey pointed it out to me.
Eustace must have made the arrangements and put the advertisement in
automatically. It’s just what he would do, of course, although no one
knew her over here. She came from South Africa with our—or rather
Eustace’s—relative, Mrs. Telpher. She was helping her with the child,
you see.”

Mr. Lugg managed to convey without offence that he did not see at all
and his patient was forced to elaborate.

“Mrs. Telpher brought her child to England for medical treatment. It’s
in hospital now and Miss Saxon came with them to help. They’ve been
staying in the Well House for about six weeks. I had no idea the old
lady had heart trouble.”

The fat man stood looking at him, his large head held slightly on one
side.

“She died sudden, did she?”

“Yes. In her sleep last Sunday night. I’ve been down in Ebbfield most of
the time since then.”

“Persooin’ your private investigations?”

“Well, yes. You could call it that, I suppose.”

Mr. Campion who was sitting at a bureau desk in the far corner of the
room heard the interrogation going on mercilessly, and marvelled at his
old friend and knave. He pulled no punches in his social skirmishes.

“’Ow sudden was it?” he was enquiring with disarming interest. “Did yer
’ave a ninquest?”

“No. She’d been under the doctor since she came here. Eustace Kinnit
called him at once and he gave a certificate.”

“Any reason why ’e shouldn’t, son?”

“No. No, of course not. Can I have my shirt?”

Campion felt it was time to intervene. He turned round in his chair and
his pleasant high voice cut into the conversation.

“I hope you don’t mind,” he said. “But I telephoned Mrs. Broome at the
Well House about half an hour ago and asked her to bring you a change.
She should be here at any moment.” He was unprepared for the effect of
the words on his visitor. His brows came down and the dusky colour shot
over his face. Campion regarded him in astonishment. “I thought it would
be the easiest way,” he said defensively.

Timothy was controlling himself with a visible effort. “What _is_ all
this? What do you know about Mrs. Broome? You’re very kind, but just who
has invited you into this? Aunt Alison I suppose! My God! Who else is
involved?”

Mr. Campion leant back and crossed his legs.

“I do apologise,” he said. “I told you I’d tell you all I know; here it
is. I have an old friend whom you know. His name is Anthony Laurell.”

“Julia’s father? Oh! I’m sorry. He didn’t tell me. I thought he was
being perfectly frank with me.”

“I think he was.” The man in the spectacles hastened to prevent any
further damage. “He spoke to me about you quite a long time ago when you
and Julia were first going around together. He and I have been friends
since we were both up at Cambridge so it’s quite natural for us to
gossip about our various interests when we run into each other. He asked
me if I’d heard a spiteful little tale which was going the rounds and I
had not, but I was interested and so when I received an invitation to
Angevin to see some ceramics I accepted. It was there I encountered Mrs.
Broome.”

“I see. I’m sorry. How did you know she was at the Well House now?”

“Julia told me.”

“Julia!” His voice quivered. “Is she pulling strings too?”

“You can hardly expect the poor girl not to be interested.” Mr. Campion
spoke with asperity. “Don’t be a fathead. She’s in love with you and
she’s been left at the starting post, so to speak. Naturally she’s
desperate.”

“Do you think I don’t know that? And do you think I’m not desperate
myself?” The violence of the young man’s protest was unexpected. There
was a raw force about him which was completely hidden and unsuspected in
the normal way. It startled Mr. Campion since it seemed out of character
in one whom he had assumed to be a typical young Oxford success-type.

“The point your old college chum doesn’t seem to have confided to you,”
the boy continued bitterly, “is that he has extracted a promise from me
not to see or speak to Julia until all this has been cleared up.
Moreover he hasn’t explained that fact to her yet. Because he knows she
wouldn’t wear it, I suppose!”

“Why do you?”

“Wear it?”

“Yes.”

Timothy blinked.

“Do you know, I don’t know,” he said at last. “I’ve been wondering. It’s
just that in my heart I believe the old buzzard is right, I imagine.
I’ve never believed in heredity consciously before and I don’t know that
I do now, but I certainly like to know what _is_ behind me. Probably
I’ve always been too much aware of everything I thought was there. Now
that it’s—well, that it’s all been altered, I feel like an untethered
balloon. I’m afraid that’s Mrs. Broome’s contribution.”

“Ah.” Mr. Campion perceived the position. “She need only just hand your
bag in. If you don’t want to see her, Lugg can simply take it from her
in the passage. There’s someone coming up now, I fancy. You hear
everything in these old buildings.”

“A fac’ which ’as bin useful in its time,” said Mr. Lugg as he lumbered
out into the narrow hallway, closing the door behind him.

As in many old London houses, the dividing walls were thin, and made of
pine panelling, and as the outer door opened the murmur of protesting
voices was very audible.

Timothy stood up abruptly. “That’s Julia!”

He pulled the door open and Mr. Lugg, for once completely put out,
stepped back to admit two women.

Julia appeared first, looking smartly casual as usual in a loose grey
woollen coat and a heavy multi-coloured silk headscarf. Mrs. Broome
followed her, neat in tweeds and beret and tightly buttoned cape gloves.
They came sweeping in, feminine and possessive and upset, and filled the
whole apartment so that both Lugg and Campion were dispossessed in a
matter of seconds and Timothy, his bathrobe wrapped round him like a
toga, met the full force of the invasion.

“Oh, what has happened to you?” Julia would have flung her arms about
his neck but he repulsed her gently. He was relaxed but very much aloof.

“Nothing much. I’m all right. I had a dust-up with a bigger boy. That’s
all.” He turned to Mrs. Broome. “Did you bring me some clothes?” He gave
her no name but added “Please” as an after thought.

Mrs. Broome did not look at him. She was more than twice his age but her
mood was unmistakable. They were in the midst of a serious quarrel.

“They’re in the case,” she said without raising her eyes, her lashes
looking long against her weather-beaten cheeks. “Everything you could
possibly want lugged right across London at a moment’s notice by me and
the sweetest, prettiest little princess of a girl who’s much too good
for you and I don’t care who I say it in front of.” She flashed a
defiant stare at the nearest stranger, who happened to be Mr. Lugg. He
was regarding her in pious horror and now stepped back involuntarily.
The appealing glance he shot at his employer stirred Mr. Campion to
action.

“It is most kind of you, Mrs. Broome,” he said firmly. “Could I ask you
to unpack them in the bedroom?”

“In a minute, sir.” The tremendous authority of the nursery met him like
physical resistance. “There’s just something I ought to say first. I’m
responsible for bringing Miss Julia. In fact I made her come with me.
Before you rang she came to the Well House looking for Mr. Timothy to
tell him something. As soon as I heard what it was—I got it out of her,
she didn’t want to tell me—I said at once that she’d better come up
here with me. Some things are serious. Some tales are dangerous and must
be stopped. ‘We’ll go and thresh it out once and for all,’ I said. ‘And
then perhaps he’ll stand up for himself and not go condoning every
cock-and-bull story told about him. At least he’ll know _this_ isn’t
right,’ I said. I was there and the only thing he did was to open the
door and in she fell. . . .”

The final words meant nothing to Mr. Campion and Lugg but their effect
on Timothy Kinnit was considerable.

His face grew dark with fury and he turned on her. “Nan! Go home at
once. I’ll talk to you later. Hurry!”

“I won’t, you know. Mr. Timmy, Mr. Timmy! It’s im . . . _por_tant!”

There was an ominous gulp on the final word and all three men saw to
their dismay the dreadful signs of disintegration—the swimming eyes,
the reddening nose, the mouth opening raggedly like a sodden paper bag.
Mrs. Broome was about to cry.

Mr. Campion and his henchman stood helpless but Timothy was experienced
in such emergencies. He took a step towards the suitcase and enquired
softly: “Did you bring my brown shoes?”

She could only just hear him and the little effort which she had to make
in order to catch the words distracted her attention. It was as if they
saw the tears actually receding.

“Brown shoes? You don’t want _brown_ shoes. I brought your blue suit.
Black shoes with blue cloth, you know that.”

He did not argue but continued to look disappointed, consolidating the
position.

Mrs. Broome’s happy, self-assured little smile reappeared like sunshine.
“Only b.o.u.n.d.e.r.s. wear brown shoes with a blue lounge suit, or that
is what I was always told,” she said gaily, one eye on the audience.
“Perhaps I’m old-fashioned but it’s very nice to have _some_ little
rules.” And having reduced one school of snobbery to absurdity she
returned brightly to the task she had come to perform.

“Well now,” she said briskly before Timothy could stop her. “That Basil
Toberman has privileges because he’s almost part of the family, but even
so he mustn’t be allowed to go about saying you helped to kill a poor
little old lady.”

If she was striving to capture his attention she succeeded. He stood
staring at her, his bathrobe festooned about him, his expression blank
with horror.

“What the hell is all this?” he demanded, turning to Julia.

The girl had been sitting on the arm of a couch, her head bowed and her
long silk legs stretched elegantly. Now she raised her face towards him,
her cheeks flushing red and white.

“Of course that’s only half true,” she said frankly. “I really came
round because I wanted any excuse to see you, I suppose, but the story
is going about and I do think it ought to be stopped. Ralph Quy rang me
this morning and told me that out at dinner in Knightsbridge last night
he heard that you’d got in a temper with an old lady from South Africa
and shaken her or frightened her or something so that she had a heart
attack and died, and that Eustace Kinnit had hushed it all up ‘as
usual.’”

“‘As usual’? What does that mean?”

“I don’t know, Tim. Don’t be angry with _me_. I just thought it was a
story which ought to be scotched pretty quickly.” She struggled on with
an explanation which she found distasteful but important. “It’s silly
and untrue I know . . . but it’s being linked with the other business.
The inference is that you’re reverting to type. You know, like a dog or
a tiger or something, all right about the house until it becomes adult.”

“When it has to be put in a zoo.” Timothy sat down heavily and put his
hands through his hair. “This is a little much, isn’t it? Did old Ralph
convey that Basil was definitely responsible for this item?”

“Well, yes he did. That was what he telephoned to tell me. He told me to
warn you that we ought to get hold of Basil Toberman and stop him
spreading dirt which wasn’t funny any more.”

“As far as I’m concerned it never was.” Timothy was irritated but not as
angry as he might have been and Mr. Campion, who was listening to the
exchange with tremendous interest, eyed him curiously. His next remark
was unexpected. “Basil is a peculiar chap,” he said. “He doesn’t mean
these things he says. He just talks to reassure himself. He means us no
harm.”

It was a patron’s point of view and highly mistaken, as Mr. Campion knew
for a fact. Suddenly he understood that it must be the Kinnit view of
all the Tobermans, the grander family’s assessment of a ‘lesser breed,’
and for a fleeting moment he caught a glimpse of Basil Toberman’s
genuine grievance. Meanwhile Timothy was still talking in complete
innocence and good faith.

“I’ll tackle the old blighter,” he said. “Don’t be too hard on him,
Julia. It’s just one of those infuriating things. You can’t really blame
him you see, because in a way it’s true.”

“What is?”

“The story. I don’t suppose poor old Miss Saxon would have died just
then if it hadn’t been for me.” He got up abruptly and smiled ruefully
at Campion. “I’ll go and dress if you’ll forgive me,” he said. “Nanny
Broome will explain all this if you care to hear it. I see I’m not going
to stop her.”

Julia was looking at Mr. Campion. “You do agree that it matters, don’t
you?” she said earnestly. “You heard Basil Toberman talking about Tim
down at Angevin. He wasn’t talking for talking’s sake. He meant it. Tim
won’t believe that.”

“And don’t try to make him, miss.” Mrs. Broome spoke placidly from the
other side of the room. She was sitting on one of the few hard chairs
the flat contained, in what was once called a “ladylike attitude,” both
her feet close together and hard on the ground, her thickly gloved hands
folded upon her good leather handbag.

“It would break Mr. Tim’s heart if he found out that someone really
close to him didn’t love him,” she continued devastatingly. “‘People who
really know you always love you if you’re lovable.’ I taught him to
believe that when he was the tiniest little boy because I don’t like
people who are always seeing snakes, do you, sir?” She put the question
directly to Campion with a bright smile conveying that she had no doubt
of his answer.

The thin man laughed. “I’m a little afraid of the people who never see
them at all,” he said gently.

“Are you?” She seemed astonished. “I was always taught that if you
didn’t pull pussy’s tail she wouldn’t scratch you, and there’s a lot of
truth in that whatever they say, but of course there are a few horrible
boys like Basil and he really ought to be stopped before he does some
real harm, which is why we’ve come, isn’t it Miss Julia? We’re not just
bearing tales, I mean.”

Julia opened her mouth, caught Mr. Campion’s eye and ceased to worry
quite so much. She returned to Mrs. Broome.

“Tell Mr. Campion exactly what happened when Miss—what was her
name?—Miss Saxon fell. Tell him exactly what you told me.”

“_Did ’e lay a ’and on ’er?_” The question, put with earnest interest by
Mr. Lugg who had been forgotten, startled everybody and Mrs. Broome
turned to him, scandalised.

“Of course not! That’s another thing I’ve ground into Mr. Tim. Never
never _never_ hit a lady!”

“Well then, the tale’s all cock,” said Lugg, dismissing it. “Don’t worry
and don’t repeat it. ’E didn’t touch ’er and that’s the end. Wot did
’appen to ’er? For the sake of the record.”

Mrs. Broome hesitated and he stood watching her, his head on one side,
his little eyes very intelligent.

“Start wiv ’oo she was,” he suggested.

Mrs. Broome’s radiant smile reappeared. “Well that was very difficult to
find out, although I tried hard enough,” she said frankly. “She didn’t
want to be called a lady’s maid, you see, and she wasn’t a governess
because the child was too ill for one. When I was a girl she’d have been
a mother’s help and liked it, except that she’d have been sixteen and
not sixty. ‘I wonder Mrs. Telpher didn’t feel it was too much of a
responsibility bringing you with her,’ I said. ‘I mean you’re quite as
likely to get ill on the journey as the kiddie, aren’t you?’ She didn’t
like that but I was right, wasn’t I?”

Lugg began to laugh in the high teetering way which only escaped him
when he was genuinely amused.

“An’ she was the one ’oo got ’erself killed!” he said. “There’s justice
for you. That’s life that is. She’d come from Souf Africa, ’ad she?”

“So she said and you needn’t think we didn’t get on. She used to talk to
me by the hour. She told me all about the diamonds and everything.”

“Diamonds! Now we’re coming to something. Where do they come in?”

“They don’t. I never saw them.” She sounded regretful and the childlike
streak in her character had never been more apparent. Her face actually
saddened. “But they’re there in the safe deposit,” she added, cheering
visibly. “Mrs. Telpher put them there because, as she told Miss Saxon,
it wasn’t fair to Mr. Eustace to keep them in the house. They’re
wonderful. Enormous. If you hadn’t known how rich she is you’d never
credit they were real. Miss Saxon told me that she couldn’t think of
them without her mouth watering.”

Julia leaned forward.

“Tell them about the kitchen door,” she suggested.

“Yes, well, that is what killed the little lady, dyed black hair,
painted face and all.” Mrs. Broome permitted herself to be kept to the
point. “Mr. Tim and I were in the kitchen having silly words about
something which after all did happen over twenty years ago, when he
suddenly stopped shouting at me and said, ‘Nan, there’s someone
listening outside that blasted door.’ It’s an old stone kitchen. We live
in an antique up here all right. I wonder Miss Alison gets any help at
all. . . . Anyhow, he leapt across the matting and wrenched open the
heavy old door and there she was leaning against the other side. So down
she came, poor silly old thing, right down the two steps on to the
stones. Mr. Tim and I picked her up at once but we certainly didn’t
shake her. She only said that afterwards to Mrs. Telpher, to take
everybody’s mind off her listening at the door.”

“She did not die at once, then?” Mr. Campion appeared fascinated by the
story.

“Oh no, thank goodness! That _would_ have frightened Mr. Timmy and me!
She waited until she got into bed, poor little dear, and then she had a
heart attack and died and wasn’t found until the morning. The doctor
said the fall was quite enough to bring it on with a heart like hers.
She ought not to have taken the job,” she added earnestly, “not when
there was a child to be considered. She might have dropped it or
frightened it, you never know.”

“When did she tell Mrs. Telpher about the shaking?”

“The night before. She went to bed early with me fussing round. Mrs.
Telpher was worried, because of course they were in someone else’s house
and illness and accidents are a trouble however polite the people are.
In the morning it was dreadful when we knew she was dead. Mr. Tim felt
so guilty about pulling the door open and he was worried to death anyhow
about the silly evacuee story of Mr. Basil’s, which really is the
stupidest thing I ever heard, that he went off as soon as he knew from
the doctor that he wasn’t to blame and he has hardly been home since.
He’s a very sensitive boy.”

Lugg raised a heavy hand as if to put it on her shoulder, thought better
of it and lowered it hastily.

“Wot is stoopid about the evac story?” he demanded. “Why shouldn’t the
young feller try to find aht abaht ’is family?”

“Because he’s got a perfectly nice family of people he’s very fond of
and knows all about and takes after by this time!” Mrs. Broome blazed at
him in sudden annoyance. “Why Miss Julia’s father wants to upset all
that I do not know. Besides, suppose Tim did find a family he seemed to
have been born into—I don’t think he can, mind you, but suppose he
did—then what could that do but mystify him completely, poor boy?”

“Mystify ’im?” Lugg was puzzled.

“Of course. You don’t know anything about people by seeing them! I
remember a lady coming to inspect St. Mary’s Home where I was brought up
and seeing us all in our lovely Elizabethan uniforms we were so proud
of, and bursting into tears all over us because ‘it was wicked to dress
us like charity children.’ We nearly crowned her we were so offended.
She saw us but she didn’t know us, did she?”

Lugg stepped back from her and permitted himself his little high-pitched
laugh again.

“You’ve got it all sorted out, ’aven’t yer?” he said admiringly. “‘Mum
knows best,’ that’s gointer be my name for you! Your young lordship
ought’er be dressed by now. You’ll all go ’ome together I expeck.” He
shuffled out of the room and Julia got up hastily and looked at Campion.

“I don’t want to leave it like this,” she began. “Basil Toberman is
doing Tim active harm. He’s got to be stopped. If I thought—”

She was silenced in mid-sentence by the reappearance of Mr. Lugg whose
face was blank with surprise.

“Gorn,” he announced. “He went down the fire escape so as not to disturb
us. Winder’s wide open. Wot’s the young feller up to, eh?”

There was a moment of complete silence in the room, broken by Julia’s
sharp intake of breath. Mrs. Broome swung round upon her protectively.

“Don’t take it to heart! It’s only because he promised your father
faithfully not to see you,” she said so quickly that no one was
convinced. “It wasn’t very nice of the old gentleman to ask it but
everything’s fair in love and war, isn’t it? You two have got to stand
up for yourselves. You and me must get together, young lady!”

Both Lugg and Campion glanced at the girl curiously to see how she would
respond to this somewhat over-direct mothering and they were both
surprised. A fleeting curl appeared at one corner of the pale pink mouth
and the swimming eyes twinkled.

“Poor Tim,” said Julia.




                                   7
                           Ebbfield Interlude


The highway to the East Coast which ran through the borough of Ebbfield
had always been a main road and even now, despite the vast garages, the
pylons and the gaily painted factory glass-houses which had sprung up
beside it, there still remained an occasional trace of past cultures.

One of these was a fragment of a terrace of early Victorian middle-class
houses of a type which had once lined the broad road for two miles on
either side. There were three of them left, tall and dark-bricked, with
semi-basement kitchens and once-splendid flights of stone steps leading
to square porches and fine front doors. The middle one possessed a
cast-iron gate with a patch of bald, sour earth just inside it, and a
name plate bearing the number 172 and the words _Waterloo Lodge_ welded
to its serpentine tracery.

It was raining and dark when Timothy Kinnit found the address at last.
He was hatless and the collar of his light raincoat was turned up. He
was at a splendid age and although his self-assurance was already shaken
he ran up the stone steps and pulled the brass knob which he found
beside the door.

There was movement inside the house and a light appeared in the transom
above his head. The door opened abruptly and a somewhat brusque feminine
voice announced: “Mrs. Cornish.”

Timothy became shyly voluble.

“I’m so sorry to trouble you and I’m afraid you don’t know me at all but
I was given this address by Tom Tray. He repairs shoes in Carroway
Street off the Orient Road. I was hoping that Councillor Cornish could
spare me a moment or so?”

His diffidence and pleasant voice appeared to mollify her, for although
she did not give ground she turned on the porch light and emerged as a
small but stalwart woman in the late forties, still smart and
good-looking with bold eyes and a fashionable hair-do. For a moment she
regarded him with surprised approval.

“My God, you’ve spoiled your beauty, haven’t you?” she said at last.
“What have you been doing, fighting? I warn you we don’t approve of
boxing. Come in and I’ll enquire if Mr. Cornish will see you. What is
it? Youth Clubs?”

“No, I’m afraid it’s not.” He followed her into a long shabby hall which
could have belonged to any careless or overworked professional man at
any period during the last hundred years. Mrs. Cornish appeared to
become conscious of its shortcomings for she frowned at him and said
accusingly:

“When one works as hard as we do for the public good one doesn’t have
time for frills. What did you say you wanted to see the Councillor
about? I don’t imagine you’re from a firm so I assume you’re canvassing.
You’re wasting time, you know, because every vote the Councillor has on
any committee is well thought out _and_ discussed, so he’s already made
up his mind one way or the other and nothing you can do will shift him
one iota.”

Timothy found her trick of answering her own questions to the second
stage of argument highly disconcerting but he stuck to his purpose.

“It’s nothing like that. I merely want to ask him something about Turk
Street long ago and—”

“Oh, you’re a reporter. Not from one of the local papers, because I know
them. Of course! You’re the B.B.C. Well, we shall all try to be as
interesting as we can.”

“I’m not!” He was trying not to shout at her. “I’m here on my own
account. I’m told that your husband knows more about Ebbfield than
anyone else on earth. Some weeks ago a detective—”

“A _detective_!” She gave him a long, suspicious look which he found
vaguely unpleasant. “So you’re a detective! I ought to throw you out at
once, but you wait in here and if he wants to see you I shan’t stop
him.”

She thrust him into an airless dining room in which no one had eaten for
a very long time, and left him standing by the large round table which
was covered with a faded red serge cloth.

The mahogany sideboard was spread with out-of-date magazines and the
pictures on the walls were all of mountains in shabby gilt frames. It
was a depressing room and he was still looking about him gloomily when
the door shot open once more and the Councillor appeared, his wife
behind him.

Timothy was nearly as startled by the man as Superintendent Luke had
been on an earlier occasion. He recognised the type at once. His
university was full of them; all passionate, dedicated, sometimes
wrong-headed men wedded to an assortment of ideas of which a few were
practical. The fire behind his eyes, his long bony wrists, and impatient
gestures were all peculiarly familiar, but the more disconcerting
because he had not expected to find them in the Ebbfield High Road. The
other surprising thing about the Councillor was his open dislike of his
visitor, who was a complete stranger. Timothy was young enough to be
hurt by it. Cornish’s nostrils were flexed and when he spoke his tone
was contemptuous.

“As I have already told one representative of your firm this morning,
the matter is closed,” he said. “I don’t want to hear any more about it.
I have the name of your client and that is all I wanted to know when I
invited him to call on me.”

Timothy relaxed. “I’m sorry, sir. You’re making a mistake,” he said
cheerfully.

“You were directed here by Stalkey and Sons.”

“No, sir. I got your name from the cobbler in Carroway Street.”

“Have you any connection with the Stalkeys at all? Do you know them? Is
the name familiar?” There was more force in the probing than the subject
warranted and the younger man hesitated.

“I got myself beaten up by one of the brothers this morning,” he said at
last.

“Why was that?”

“I don’t know. The man set on me out of the air.”

The Councillor stared at him and presently spoke more mildly. “That’s a
very dangerous accusation unless you’re perfectly sure what you mean by
it, my boy.” Without his animosity he was revealed as a pleasant person,
a little inhuman perhaps but possessing a streak of dry humour.

“I should hardly have thought that man I met would have hung about long
enough to beat up anybody,” he remarked, sniffing a little. “His
brother, who he assured me was working down here on an enquiry, made the
most indecently hasty departure from trouble which I ever witnessed. He
was literally jet-propelled and all the way to Canada, I believe. What’s
your name?”

“Timothy Kinnit, sir.”

“_Kinnit!_” The word was an explosion and the lined aesthetic face grew
rigid. “What’s this about? Eh?” He turned to his wife. “Marion, leave me
with this young man for a minute or two, will you?”

Mrs. Cornish sat down obstinately.

“I’ll wait,” she was beginning, but as he turned and looked at her the
colour came into her face and she got up sulkily and went over to the
door. “I shan’t be very far away, anyhow,” she said as she left but it
was not clear if the words were meant as a threat or a reassurance.

The Councillor waited until her footsteps had died away before he leant
across the table in an effort, apparently, to be reasonable at all
costs.

“Who sent you?” he demanded.

Timothy’s irritation began to return. “I was given your name by the
shoemaker off the Orient Road.”

“And you expect me to believe that?”

“I really can’t imagine why you shouldn’t.”

The Councillor ignored him.

“I think Miss Alison Kinnit sent you,” he said.

Timothy stared. “Alison? Why should she?”

“You know her then?” The intelligent eyes were shrewdly inquisitive.

“Of course I do. She and her brother brought me up. I live with them.”

“Oh.” He seemed astonished, even a little put out. “Then perhaps you
know a woman called Flavia Aicheson?” He put contempt and dislike into
the name and Timothy frowned.

“Certainly I know her,” he admitted. “She’s been around all my life.
She’s a great friend of Aunt Alison’s and a very nice old thing. Has she
been making trouble on one of your committees?” He saw that he had
scored a bull’s-eye as soon as the words were out of his mouth. The
Councillor was verging towards rage and colour had appeared on his thin
cheeks.

“You’re very plausible, very smooth,” he began with intentional offence.
“I’m not a fool, you know, even if I have lived a great deal longer than
you have. As soon as I heard a private detective had been snooping along
certain lines I suspected something of this sort and I was disgusted, I
tell you frankly. For a while I washed my hands of the entire affair but
on second thoughts I decided to check and I invited the Stalkeys to call
on me. One brother came down this morning and was quite ready to talk,
but I only wanted one thing from him and that was the name of his
client. As soon as he gave me that I knew I was right. Alison Kinnit and
Flavia Aicheson, they’re virtually the same woman.”

“Oh but they’re not!”

Timothy was so exasperated that he laughed. “They may have the same
interests and they’re certainly very close friends but they’re quite
different personalities I do assure you.”

“Are they?” Councillor Cornish conveyed that he was unconvinced. “You go
back and tell them,” he said, “tell them they may feel that they’re
serving the Arts but that I serve humanity and I am not going to have my
life’s work tampered with. You can also tell them that if they’re hoping
to use dirty weapons they should consider their own position very
carefully. At least,” he hesitated, “at least tell them not to be so
damn silly!”

“I do assure you you’re making a great mistake.” Timothy’s embarrassment
was mounting. He had discovered to his dismay that the personal aspect
of his quest was becoming more agonisingly personal at every new
encounter, while at the same time the Councillor’s accusatory style
upset him in an emotional way which he felt to be absurd.

“I came here on my own account because I want to know the things that
Stalkey was trying to find out and I thought you might help me,” he said
lamely.

“What things? Go on, young man. Put them into words, what things?” There
was something savage in the force of the older man’s question and his
visitor shied away from it.

“Certain—certain aspects of social conditions in Turk Street just
before the second war, sir,” he muttered and sounded stilted even to
himself.

“_Social conditions!_” The phrase seemed to touch a power centre in the
Councillor, who let himself go. “Don’t be a pompous ass, boy!” He used
the word in the old-fashioned way with a long vowel, making it even more
derogatory. “Turk Street was a London slum. Your generation doesn’t know
what that means. You call yourselves ‘sick,’ don’t you? So do I. You
couldn’t have walked a hundred yards of the Turk Street Mile in the
thirties without vomiting. It turned me up myself and I wasn’t a
spoon-fed university product.”

He leant further across the table, shaking in his determination to make
his point.

“Children crawled over each other like little grey worms in the
gutters,” he said. “The only red thing about them were their buttocks
and they were raw. Their faces looked as if snails had slimed on them
and their mothers were like great sick beasts whose byres had never been
cleared. The stink and the noise and the cold and the hatred got into
your belly and nothing and no one has ever got it out again as far as
I’m concerned. For God’s sake go back to those maiden ladies and get it
into their idiot heads that an anthill is less offensive than a sewer.”

Timothy hesitated. The man was making an extraordinary mistake, he saw,
and he realised that he was probably the best source of information
about the vanished Turk Street remaining in London. Yet he also knew
that for some inexplicable reason he could not put up with his open
animosity any longer.

The Councillor glanced up. “What are you waiting for?”

“Nothing, sir.” Timothy was very pale and the damage which Ron Stalkey
had done to his face stood out in angry colour on his skin: “Goodbye.”
He turned on his heel and walked across the room, out through the front
door and down the steps to the street without once looking behind him.

Mrs. Cornish, who was hovering in the passage, saw him go and she went
in to her husband.

“Why on earth did you do that?” she demanded. “I could hear you from the
kitchen. What did the poor boy say to make you so livid?”

Now that his rage was spent the Councillor was a little shame-faced.
“Oh, I don’t know,” he said frowning. “The ‘holier-than-thou’ attitude
of that sort of pup always irritates me. A self-satisfied superior
approach to matters of taste is infuriating. Those people like the
Kinnits and the Aichesons all do the same thing. They look at something
which they know nothing whatever about and presume to judge it solely by
the effect which the mere sight of it has had on them.”

“Flavia Aicheson,” said Mrs. Cornish. “That’s the mannish old woman who
runs the Little Society for the Preservation of the London Skyline,
isn’t it? So that’s what he came about. Rather a nice type.”

“I didn’t notice it. Those people are up to something. I don’t trust
them an inch. They’re the kind of half-baked intellectuals who never
know where to stop. They don’t like the look of the new flats. The
silhouette is an affront to their blasted eyes, they say. Well, there
are alternatives which have offended my eyes . . .”

“Yes dear, not again.” Mrs. Cornish exerted her own brand of force. “You
happened to walk down Turk Street one winter afternoon long ago when you
first came up from the country to be Dad’s apprentice, and it gave you
such a shock that you’ve never got over it. We know. We’ve heard enough
about it. You weren’t there quite half an hour and it’s dominated your
whole life. It may not have been the utter hell you thought. Anyhow, why
take it out on the first presentable youngster who’s been to the house
for years?”

“Pompous ass!” said the Councillor again. “He kept calling me ‘sir’ as
if I were Methuselah. That’s all I noticed about him. A useless,
opinionated, oversensitive ass!”

“Oh rubbish,” she said. “You can’t say that. You didn’t even let him
speak. Do you know who he reminded me of? You at that age. No one was
more opinionated than you were, or more oversensitive for that matter.”

The Councillor stared at her.

For an instant he looked positively alarmed. Then he laughed, regretful,
even a little flattered.

“You do say the most damn silly things, Marion,” he said.




                                   8
                             The Well House


“Seen it before, sir?” The brisk enquiry from the helmeted figure
materialising beside Timothy in the half darkness took him by surprise
and he blinked. He had been standing perfectly still, gazing across the
broad street at the silhouette of the house which had been his home in
London ever since he could remember, and it was as new to him as a
foreign land.

He had just walked back from Ebbfield. His interview with the Councillor
had had a considerable effect upon him for he was behaving as if a skin
had peeled from his eyes. Children first home from boarding school often
notice the same phenomenon, very familiar things appearing not different
in themselves but as if they were being seen by someone new. He knew of
no reason why it should have happened. The front of his mind was
satisfied that he had merely had an interview with a difficult old man,
but behind it, in the vast, blind, computing machine where the mind and
the emotions meet and churn, something very odd indeed seemed to have
taken place.

It was a muggy London night and the road which was an inferno in the
daytime was now a deserted river, gleaming dully in a dark ravine.

The Constable was a regular and had recognised him. It was a lonely beat
and he was prepared to chat.

“It’s an anachronism,” he remarked unexpectedly, jerking his
leather-strapped chin towards the Tudor merchant’s mansion which lay,
top-heavy but graceful as a galleon, between two towering warehouses on
the opposite side of the road. The overhanging latticed windows, one
floor up, were lighted and warmth shone out faintly through reddish
curtains. But at street level the low iron-bound doors and small windows
were hidden in the shadows. “Completely out of place in a modern world,
isn’t it?” he went on. “But it’s nice to see it. It’s even better than
that row up in Holborn they tell me. Is it comfortable to live in, sir?”

“Not bad. Plumbing was put in very intelligently at the early part of
this century but the kitchens are still a bit archaic.” Timothy spoke as
if the facts were fresh to him and the Constable laughed. “Still, you’re
proud of it I dare say?” he said.

The younger man turned his head in surprise. “I suppose I was,” he said
but the policeman was not listening. The light from one of the
old-fashioned street lamps bracketed on the building behind them had
fallen on to the speaker’s face and he was startled by the damage.

“Blimey sir! What have you done to yourself? Met with an accident?”

“Not exactly. I had a dust-up with a lunatic!” The words came out with
more bitterness than he had intended and he laughed to cover it. “Never
mind, officer. All’s square now. Goodnight.”

“Goodnight sir.” The man went off as if he had been dismissed and
Timothy crossed the road and let himself into the Well House.

There was a small wooden draughtbreak just inside the door with a
curtained entrance to the main hall, and he heard Basil Toberman’s voice
as he stepped through it into the warm, black-panelled room with the
moulded plaster ceiling and the square staircase rising up through it.
The first thing he saw was a funeral wreath, and the scent of lilies
hung in the warm air, suffocating and exotic, and remarkably foreign to
the familiar house.

The tribute was very big, nearly four feet across, a great cushion of
white hothouse flowers, diapered with gold, and made all the more
extravagant by the shining plastic wrappings which made it look as if it
was under glass. It lay on the oak table which flanked the staircase and
at the moment Toberman was bending over it, fiddling with the card half
hidden among the blossom. Mrs. Broome was hovering beside him in a
flurry of protest.

“Oh don’t,” she was objecting. “Mr. Basil, don’t. It isn’t as though
it’s yours. Don’t be so inquisitive, don’t!”

“Shut up,” he said without turning round. “I’m only having a look. The
order must have come from South Africa through one of the flower
services, I suppose. That’s the flaw in these things. There’s no way of
telling what you’re getting for your money.”

“What are you talking about?” she demanded. “It’s beautiful. It must
have cost I don’t know what!”

“I know. That’s what I’m saying. Out there—wherever it is—flowers are
probably dear at this time of year. Over here in late spring they cost
nothing. I don’t suppose anyone, however stinking rich, intended to send
to a servant’s funeral the sort of wreath which one expects to see the
Monarch parking on a War Memorial.”

Nanny Broome sniffed.

“No wonder no one could do anything _with_ you,” she observed without
animosity. “Your naughtiness is right in you. Miss Saxon wasn’t a
servant and if she had been all the more reason that she should have a
nice wreath, even if it did come so late it missed the hearse. I wish
I’d had you as a little boy. I’d have scared some of the commonness out
of you, my lad. Miss Saxon was a governess and a very intelligent woman
with a great sense of humour.”

“How do you know?”

Mrs. Broome silenced him. “Well, she used to laugh at _me_,” she said
and seemed so pleased about it that there was nothing to say.

Toberman swung round on his heel and saw Timothy standing in the
doorway. He stood for an instant contemplating the scarred face, his
eyes wonderfully shrewd and amused, but he made no direct comment.

Instead he returned to the flowers: “Wonderfully wealthy guests we
have,” he remarked. “This is how the staff is seen off. How does this
appeal to the young master?”

It was a casual sneer, obviously one of a long line. There was hatred
behind it but of a quiet, chronic type, nothing new or unduly virulent,
and he was taken aback by the flicker of amazed incredulity which passed
over the younger man’s ravaged face. Toberman was disconcerted. “What’s
the matter?” he demanded truculently.

“Nothing.” Timothy’s eyes wavered and met Mrs. Broome’s. She was
watching him like a mother cat, noting the signs of shock without
altogether understanding them. She opened her mouth to speak but he
shook his head at her warningly and she closed it again without a sound.

“You look like a lost soul,” Toberman said. “Where have you been?”

Tim turned away. “I walked home,” he said briefly. “I’m tired.”

Nanny Broome could bear it no longer.

“Come down to the kitchen, Mr. Tim,” she said. “I want to talk to you,”
and as her glance met his own she formed the word “Julia” with her lips,
giving him a clue as she used to do long ago when there was a secret to
be told in company and he was a little boy.

Despair passed over the young face and he turned away abruptly.

“Not now, Nan,” he said, looking at Toberman who had found the card he
had been seeking amid the lilies and was now transcribing its details
into a notebook. He was doing it with that offhand effrontery which so
often passes unnoticed because people cannot bring themselves to credit
their own eyes. When a step on the landing above surprised him, he slid
the book into his pocket and patted the covering back into place.

“We were saying how beautiful it is,” he remarked blandly as he glanced
up the stairwell. Mrs. Geraldine Telpher, the Kinnits’ visiting niece,
was coming down, moving quietly and smoothly as she did everything else.
She was a distinguished looking woman in the late thirties, pleasantly
pale with faded old-gold hair and light blue eyes, who radiated
authority and that particular brand of faint austerity which is so often
associated with money. She was wearing a grey jersey suit with
considerable elegance, and the way her jacket sat on her shoulders and
the trick she had of settling her cuff straight confirmed her kinship
with Eustace and Alison so vividly that the others were made a little
uncomfortable. Her method of handling Toberman was also startlingly
familiar. She laughed at his antics with a mixture of ruefulness and
tolerance as if he were a slightly offensive household pet.

“The smell of the lilies is rather powerful,” she said. “The house is
full of it upstairs. Is there somewhere where the wreath could go, Mrs.
Broome? It’s a pity it came so late. Perhaps it could be sent to the
grave in the morning?”

“I was going to take it myself, first thing.” In her determination to
keep in the limelight Mrs. Broome spoke on the spur of the moment and it
was evident to everybody that the idea had never entered her head before
that instant. “In a taxi,” she added after the briefest possible pause.

“Perhaps so,” Mrs. Telpher agreed gravely. “They might not let you take
it on a bus but you could try. Anyway it’s very good of you and I’m sure
she would have appreciated it. She had taken a great fancy to you,
hadn’t she?”

“Well I should think so, she talked enough to me!” Nanny Broome was
‘giving back as good as she had got’ in an instinctive self-preservative
fashion which had nothing to do with reason. The Kinnit trick of making
people feel slightly inferior without intending to or noticing that it
had been done had never been more clearly demonstrated.

Toberman went on chatting in a determined yet deferential way.

“We were thinking that the flowers must have been ordered from abroad by
wire,” he was saying with a little inquisitive laugh. “The whole wreath
is very lush—very grand. The card only says ‘Love dear from Elsa’ but
there’s a box number which suggests either a P.O. box address, as in
South Africa, or a florist’s reference.”

Geraldine Telpher favoured him with a wide-eyed stare which might have
been one of Alison Kinnit’s own and shook her head, smiling.

“I imagine it must have come from the family she was with before she
came to me,” she said, making it clear that she was humouring him. “I
notified her home and they must have told them. It was the Van der
Graffs, I remember. How nice of them. They’re good people. You find its
size a little ostentatious, do you, Basil?”

“Don’t make fun of me,” he protested. “I’m just impressed, that’s all. I
like lavishness. It’s rare. By the way that name—Van der Graff—are
they anything to do with the Ivory people?”

“I’m afraid I just wouldn’t know.”

“Ah!” he held up a warning hand to her. “No wicked snobbery. Trade is in
fashion. As a matter of fact I was coming to talk to you about that.” He
turned to Mrs. Broome and lifted the wreath into her arms, all but
hiding her.

“Run along with that to the scullery, Broomie. I shan’t stay here
tonight, by the way, because I’ve got to get the late plane to Nice, but
I’ll be back tomorrow rather late and I’d like to stay then. The room is
ready I expect, so you won’t have to worry about me.” It was a plain
dismissal and Mrs. Broome went, but not defeated.

“Me worry about _you_?” she said from the doorway. “That’ll be the day!”

Toberman laughed and returned to Mrs. Telpher. “They used to sack them
for that sort of remark,” he said. “I suppose you do now. How wonderful.
Now look, Geraldine my dear, I don’t know if this is of any interest to
you at all but I thought I’d mention it. I’m going to Nice tonight to
see a little fourth-century bronze which Lagusse says is genuine. I’ve
seen a photograph and it’s more than promising. I shall just take one
look and come home, because if it’s real the only man who has both the
taste and the money to buy it is in your country and I’ve got Philip
Zwole flying there on other business and I want to brief him. He’ll be
overseas for the best part of a month and he’ll spend quite a week in
Johannesburg, so if there’s anything you’d like him to take or any
message you’d like to send by him, well, there he is.”

It was a request for introductions and Timothy, who had moved away,
turned back irritably.

“I imagine Geraldine can keep in touch, Basil,” he said.

It was a protest and sounded like one and Toberman received it with a
stare of reproachful amazement while Mrs. Telpher looked at Timothy and
laughed a polite rejection of the whole subject.

“It’s very kind of him,” she said. “If I do think of anything I shall
certainly remember the offer.”

Toberman snorted. His dark face was swarthy with blood and his round
black eyes were furious.

“Don’t be damn silly,” he exploded, turning on the other man.

“Geraldine has just had her Miss Saxon die in a strange country.
Presumably the woman had some things which ought to be taken to her
home. I was merely offering a service. What other reason could I
possibly have?”

“None,” intervened Mrs. Telpher with all the Kinnit tolerance in her
quiet voice. “I do appreciate it. It really is most kind.”

Toberman appeared mollified and bounced again. “Well then,” he said,
“when I come in tomorrow evening I’ll collect anything you want to send
and give it to Zwole when I see him in the morning. I can understand you
being windy about the poor old thing’s family, Tim. You actually knocked
her over, didn’t you?”

Mrs. Telpher intervened.

“Tell me about the bronze,” she said.

“Why? Are you interested?” His sudden eagerness made her smile and she
bowed her long neck. “I might be,” she conceded.

Timothy left them and went upstairs to the sitting room whose lighted
windows he had seen from the street. It was a civilised, lived-in room,
part panelled and part booklined. A vast turkey carpet with a faded
tomato-soup coloured background hid much of the black oak floor, and the
remarkable collection of upholstered furniture which had comfort alone
in common was welded into harmony by plain covers in the same yellowish
pink.

Miss Alison Kinnit and her friend Miss Aicheson were sitting where they
always did, Alison on one of the angular couches with her feet tucked up
beside her and Flavia in a big rounded armchair with a back like a sail
on the opposite side of the hearth. There was no fire and the wide brick
recess housed a collection of cacti, none of them doing very well
because of the shade and the draught.

The likeness between Alison Kinnit and her niece Mrs. Telpher was
considerable but the twenty years between their ages was not entirely
responsible for the main difference, which was one of delicacy. Mrs.
Telpher was a pale, graceful woman but Alison’s pallor and fragility
were remarkable. Her skin was almost translucent without being actually
unhealthy and her bones were as slender as a bird’s. She had always had
an interesting face but had never been beautiful and now there was
something a little frightening in the grey-eyed intelligence with which
she confronted the world. Miss Flavia on the other hand was a more
familiar type. She was one of those heavy ugly women with kind faces and
apologetic, old-gentlemanly manners who all look as if they were John
Bull’s own daughters taking strongly after their father, poor dears. She
was older than Alison, sixty perhaps, and happy in the way that some
elderly men who have had great trials and overcome them are happy:
quiet-eyed, amused, and not utterly intolerant.

It was obvious that they had been talking about Timothy; not because
they seemed guilty when he came in but because they were so interested
and so clear about who he was and what was happening to him. In the
normal way they were apt to be completely absorbed by their own affairs
of the moment and these might be literary, charitable, or political—one
never knew which. The fact that Miss Flavia had stuck to her romantic
name all her life said much for her character. Now she turned slowly in
her chair and looked at Tim through her glasses.

“Certainly battle-scarred but I hope not woebegone,” she said in her
fluting, county voice. “What does the other fellow look like? Come and
sit down and tell us all about it. Shall I get him a drink, Alison?”

“Would you like one, dear?” Alison nodded at him, screwing up her face
with mimic pain at the damage to his face. “We won’t. But it’s there in
the cupboard if you’d like it. Mrs. Broome told us you’d been in the
wars. Where have you been? You look awfully distrait.” Her own voice was
clipped and academic, and friendly without warmth.

“Down to Ebbfield again,” he said as casually as he could as he seated
himself on the edge of the round ottoman which took up a huge amount of
space in the fairway between the fireplace and the door. “I saw a man
called Councillor Cornish: he seemed to think that you or Aich must have
sent me.”

“And did we?” Alison glanced enquiringly at her friend. “I don’t recall
it.” Miss Aicheson’s nice eyes regarded him innocently. “Yet the name is
familiar. Is he an Ebbfield councillor?”

“I imagine so. He’s responsible for building a block of flats.”

“Oh, of course. The skyline committee, Alison. He’s the poor wretched
man with the dreadful temper. I remember.” Miss Flavia was delighted.
Her charitableness had never been more marked. “I can imagine him
remembering me but I can’t think why he should suppose I should have
sent you to him. People with chips on their shoulders do get wild ideas,
of course. Well, did he help you? What did you ask him?”

Timothy appeared to be wondering and Alison, mistaking his reaction,
intervened tactfully.

“Aich is on top of the world. She’s had a letter from the Minister.”

Miss Aicheson’s red face was suffused with shy pleasure. “Oh, it’s
nothing. Only an acknowledgment, really,” she said, “but it’s from
Whites, not the House, and it’s signed, and there’s even a little
postscript in his own hand thanking me for my ‘lucid exposition.’ I’m
very bucked. I admit it.”

Timothy frowned. His young body was tense and as he sat with his long
legs crossed he tapped on his knee with nervous fingers.

“Is that the Minister of Housing? Is this the Ebbfield business?”

Alison’s laugh silenced him.

“Oh, no, my dear, Ebbfield is very small beer. This is the Plan for
Trafalgar Square.”

Miss Aicheson made a happy succession of little grunting noises.
“Ra-ther a different caper!” she announced with satisfaction. “I expect
the over-earnest little men will get their own way at Ebbfield and it
can’t be helped because that part of London is spoiled already. One just
does what one can in a case like that and doesn’t break one’s heart if
one fails.”

“Cornish didn’t strike me as being a _little_ man.” Tim appeared
astonished at his own vehemence and Alison turned her wide grey eyes
upon him, surprised also.

Flavia Aicheson waved the protest away with a large masculine hand.
“Very likely not,” she agreed. “I can’t visualise him at all. I only
remember how angry he was and how nearly rude, so that all the rest of
the conference was on edge with embarrassment. He was over-earnest,
though, wasn’t he? These dear chaps remember some picture from their
childhood, some little injustice or ugliness, and let it grow into a
great emotional boil far, far more painful than the original
wound. . . . Don’t let them influence you, dear boy.”

She and Alison exchanged glances and suddenly became utterly embarrassed
themselves.

Miss Aicheson made an effort, her face scarlet and her voice unsteady
with nervousness.

“This enquiry into your birth is a very difficult and awkward experience
for you, Timothy, and Alison and I both feel (although of course we
haven’t been discussing you, don’t think that!) the real danger is of
you losing your sense of proportion and swinging violently either one
way or the other. Left or Right.”

She was as uncomfortable as a young girl and, since the problem was
emotional, quite as inexperienced. The boy got up.

“That’s all right, Aich,” he said kindly. “I shan’t go Red or Fascist.”

The two ladies sighed with relief. “Of course you won’t,” Miss Flavia
said heartily. “You’re far too sensible. Well now, about the
investigation: Any progress?” She hesitated and a little wistful smile,
as feminine and pathetic as any Nanny Broome could muster, suddenly
crept over her homely face. “Don’t forget that in one way it could be
very romantic and exciting, Timothy,” she murmured. “I mean—one never
knows.”

Alison burst out laughing. Her grey eyes were as hard but also as
innocent as pebbles in a stream.

“Dear Aich!” she said. “Isn’t she wonderful, Timothy? She’s thinking:
‘Even the Minister must have been young in ’39!’”

Miss Flavia’s colour increased to danger point and she shook her head
warningly.

“That’s not funny, Alison,” she said. “Vulgar and not funny at all.”

At once Alison Kinnit lost her poise and became contrite.

“Sorry, Aich,” she said, hanging her head like a delicate child. “Really
truly.”

Timothy went out of the room without them noticing that he had gone.




                                   9
                              The Stranger


Eustace Kinnit was the author of many books and pamphlets on various
aspects of the china collector’s art as well as being an enthusiastic
correspondent on the subject. The small study where he did his endless
writing was at the far end of the gallery which ran round the staircase
well, on the same floor as the sitting room. There was a sliver of light
under the door as Timothy approached after leaving Miss Alison and her
friend, and he stood outside for a moment, hesitating, with an anxious
expression in his eyes which was new there. Any sort of nervousness was
foreign to his temperament and he bore it awkwardly. Presently he pushed
his hand over his hair, stiffened his shoulder, and walked in more
abruptly than he would have done at any other time in his life.

Eustace was sitting at his desk in a bright circle of light from the
shaded lamp, his pen squeaking softly as it ran swiftly over the page.
Timothy, who had seen him in exactly the same position so often and who
loved him so well that he had, as it were, never seen him at all,
observed him objectively for the first time.

He was a spare, tidy man of sixty or so with a sharp white beard, and a
sweep of white hair above a fine forehead. His eyes were like his
sister’s but more blue and infinitely more kindly and the lines at their
sides radiated in a quarter circle. As he wrote his knee jogged all the
time. It was a ceaseless tremor which made a little draught in the
otherwise still and muffled room. He took no notice of the newcomer
until he had finished his paragraph, putting in the final stop with
care. Then he put down his pen, lifted his head and removed his
spectacles. These were in white gold, made to his own austere design,
and were one of his few personal vanities. As they lay on the page they
were as typical of him as his signature.

“Hello,” he said happily. “There you are. It went off very well. Nothing
too barbaric but respectably splendid and decent. I think she was
pleased.”

“The funeral?”

“Eh? Oh my goodness yes! What did you think? I meant Geraldine, too.
There’s no way of telling what the other poor woman felt about it!” His
laugh was schoolboyish and charming. “Are you all right? I can’t see you
very well over there. Turn the light on, will you? Good Heavens, boy!
What have you done?”

Timothy had touched the switch by the door obediently and as the light
fell on his face Eustace’s horrified reaction to the damage was so
completely out of proportion to it that the younger man was irritated.

“It’s nothing,” he protested, shying away. “Only a scratch or two.”

“Not a road accident?” Eustace was speaking of something he was always
dreading and fear flared in his voice embarrassingly.

“No, of course not. I merely got a hiding from one of those damn
detectives of yours. What on earth made you pick them, or was it
Alison?”

“The Stalkeys? I heard something of the sort from the women.” Eustace
opened his eyes very wide. “I can’t believe it.”

He spoke gravely, meaning the words literally, and managed to look both
so hurt and so completely incredulous that the exasperated colour poured
into the boy’s face, hiding some of the injuries in a general
conflagration. Eustace sighed as if somehow he had been reassured.
“That’s much better,” he said unreasonably. “But you shouldn’t make
sweeping statements like that. If you attacked the man I suppose he
defended himself. They’re a very old-established firm and excellent
people or we shouldn’t have employed them for the second time. Even so I
don’t know if it was wise. We’re only trying to help you, Tim, you know
that.”

It was a transparent mixture of prejudice, obstinacy, and genuine dismay
and so like him that the young man could have wept.

“Oh scrub it!” he exploded and suddenly blurted out the one bald
question that he had made up his mind never to ask outright.

“Uncle, had no one _really_ any idea whatever where I came from?”

Eustace gaped at him in amazement. When his urbanity dropped away from
him, as now, he had an innocence of expression which was almost
infantile. It was as if the world had never touched him at all.

“But I told you,” he said earnestly. “I told you, Tim. I confessed it.”
The young man watched him helplessly. There was no hope that he was
lying. The chill truth shone from him as only truth does shine. “It was
absurd and unrealistic of me perhaps,” he went on, betraying that he was
still not entirely convinced of the fact. “I can see something of that
now, but then . . .! My goodness! What a time that was! The world was
cracking up all round us, you see. Civilisation, Beauty, Law, and Order,
all crumbling like the pillars of a city. You were just a little bundle
of helpless jelly, so very vulnerable and appealing. It didn’t seem very
important what I did. I thought I’d provide for you as long as I could,
you know, and there was that thwarted, childless woman so delighted to
be able to mother you. I felt I did right afterwards because Alison and
I both became so fond of you. I’ve said I’m sorry, Tim.”

“Don’t . . .” The boy put out his hand. “I’m not ungrateful, you know
that. It’s only that—I mean, you are absolutely dead sure that I can’t
possibly be a Kinnit?”

Eustace appeared to consider the remoter possibilities for the first
time.

“How could you be?” he enquired.

The utter reasonableness of the question struck Timothy with the impact
of a pail of cold water. The final shreds of his romantic
swaddling-clothes were washed away and he stood quivering and ashamed of
himself for ever clinging to them. It was a moment of enormous danger
which anyone in Eustace’s position who had a reasonable degree of
emotional imagination or experience must have found terrifying, but his
protection was almost complete. He reacted in his own way and changed
the subject.

“I’m getting on,” he announced, nodding at the written page. “But it’s
not easy. There’s very little data about Chandler’s first factory at
Bristol. Oh well, it must wait for the moment. I’m very glad you came
in, Tim. I wanted to have a word with you about poor Basil. He _drinks_
these days, doesn’t he?”

The young man stood looking at him. In his eyes was the half-horrified,
half-amused expression with which so many people meet the solution of a
lifelong enigma. Eustace the father-figure had turned into Eustace the
dear old fuss-pot.

“Basil? Oh, he takes his noggin,” Timothy said. “It’s not serious.”

“Ah, but I understand it makes him _talk_.” Eustace’s glance had become
frosty and the aesthetic lines in his face were very marked; he had also
coloured a little as he always did when he was embarrassed. “Alison came
in here an hour ago,” he said. “She’d been talking to Nanny Broome—that
woman is only up here for a few days and we learn things about each
other of which we’ve been happily ignorant for years! I don’t take her
too seriously but one thing she is reported to have said worries me very
much.” He lowered his voice to a confidential murmur. “Have you heard an
extraordinary story about Basil actually saying—when drunk of
course—that you had been _rough_ with that poor old woman who died
here?”

Timothy frowned in irritation. “I heard something of the sort.”

“Tim. It’s not true?”

“Of course not! Don’t be silly, Nunk.” The old endearment from his
childhood slipped out without him noticing. “Even if no one has faced
this birth business until now you can’t suddenly decide you don’t know
me at all! Miss Saxon happened to be listening outside the kitchen door
when I pulled it open. She fell into the room and on to the stones. Nan
and I picked her up and dusted her down and she went off quite happy,
but afterwards she told Geraldine that I had shaken her.”

“And you hadn’t?” The anxiety in the tone was wounding.

“No! She was only creating a diversion; she’d been caught listening at a
door! Do put it out of your head, it’s so unimportant.”

“I don’t think so.” Eustace got up from his chair and walked up and down
the small room. Something had frightened him. Timothy found that he
recognised the signs but was no longer made afraid himself by them.
Eustace was pale and excited and the knuckles of his hands grasping the
lapels of his jacket were white.

“It could be most damaging. Most. He’s got to be stopped, Tim. He’s got
to be stopped at once. Where is the silly fellow?”

“He’s in the house. He’s flying to Nice in the dawn and coming back here
to sleep tomorrow night. Don’t bother with him. He does chatter and
nobody takes any notice of him. Really it doesn’t matter.”

“You’re wrong. She’s dead you see. It makes it very awkward. Very
dangerous.” Eustace paused in the midst of his walk and was thinking,
his eyes narrowed and his lips moving. “I’ll speak to him,” he said at
last. “Don’t you say anything. It’s my responsibility. Leave it to me.
He must give up alcohol if he can’t trust his tongue.”

The younger man turned away wearily. “I don’t care a damn what he says!”

“That’s nothing to do with it, my boy. Don’t you see? I gave Dr. Gross
my word that there could be no possible need for a post-mortem.”

“That was a bit god-like of you, wasn’t it?”

“Wasn’t it?” Eustace’s gentle laugh escaped him. “Something warned me at
the time that I was being presumptuous. However, I did it. Gross came
over as soon as I telephoned and when he found that she was dead he came
in here to me and said something about mentioning the death to the
Coroner. Well, I’ve known him for years, as you know, and rightly or
wrongly I dissuaded him. I pointed out that he had attended her so he
was behaving quite properly in giving a certificate if he was certain
nothing abnormal had occurred, and I took it on myself to guarantee that
nothing had. After a certain amount of humming and haa-ing he agreed.”

“Why did you go to all that trouble? Because Geraldine is so rich?”

Eustace looked hurt. “Tim, that was a sneer!” He shook his head and
added with disarming frankness, “I don’t know why one does go out of
one’s way to oblige Money. It’s a funny thing and very wrong but
everybody does it. Yet, you know, it wasn’t quite that. I think I wanted
to save us all embarrassment. Geraldine has trouble enough on her hands
with that poor child in hospital.”

He paused and alarm appeared in his kindly eyes again.

“Basil must hold his tongue though. What a stupid man he is! It could be
particularly awkward, since the woman was a governess. I noticed that at
once.”

Tim looked at him blankly for a moment before he laughed.

“On the principle that the Kinnit family is governess prone?”

“Don’t be a fool, my boy!” Eustace actually stamped his foot. “Use your
imagination. Nothing colours a new scandal like an old crime story. In
the last century the Kinnits were involved in a Coroner’s inquest and a
trial which concerned a governess, Thyrza Caleb. The name is not
forgotten after a hundred years. It would certainly cause comment if we
appeared in a new one now which also concerned a governess. It’s
obvious. That was why I wrote the announcement for the newspapers
myself. I was very careful not to let the name Kinnit appear. ‘Kinnit’
and ‘governess’ are not good words together. We live in an age of
mischievous publicity; it’s stupid to ignore the fact. Basil must stop
drinking and be quiet. I’ll see to it myself.” He sat down at the desk
again and took up his pen. “You go and have a good sleep,” he said.
“You’re not like yourself tonight.” Tim turned to the door.

“I’m not like anybody, that’s the trouble.”

“What’s that?” Eustace was looking over his glasses. “Turn that light
down will you as you go. I like just the one lamp on the page. What did
you say just now?”

“Nothing of any interest. Goodnight.”

“Goodnight, Tim.” He was already writing. “Don’t brood,” he said without
looking up. “And don’t forget, not a word to Basil. I’ll do that.”

Timothy went out into the passage again and walked round the staircase
well to the other side of the house. The door of the sitting room was
closed but he heard Toberman’s unmistakable laugh and Miss Aicheson’s
high hollow voice as he passed it. The rest of the building was as quiet
as only London’s nighttime deserted areas can be quiet. From every side
the roar was still audible, but now it came from far away and in the
middle there was stillness and the grateful peace of pandemonium
quelled.

His own room possessed a staircase of its own which ran up from the end
of the right wing where Eustace, Alison, and any guest staying the night
had bed and bathrooms. It had always been his room and as a child he had
been thrilled by the sense of importance and security which the
staircase gave him. One entered it through a small door which one could
pretend was secret and the stair wound up in a full half turn to the big
low room with the uneven oak floor and the tiny washroom and shower
built in an over-sized cupboard, the panelled bed and the bookshelves
filling the wall beside it.

He was so anxious to get to this sanctuary, to shut the door and clear
his mind, that he did not notice Nanny Broome who was standing by the
passage window, her dark dress mingling with the heavy curtains.

“Mr. Tim?” The voice, almost in his ear as he passed, surprised him and
he shied away from her. “Mr. Tim. I’ve got to tell you something.”

“Not now, Nan, for God’s sake!” The words came out more savagely than he
meant and she responded in her own particular fashion. Her eyes flashed
and her lips hardened. “Oh well then, you must find it out for yourself
and I shan’t take the blame!” she said tartly. “I’m sorry I wasted my
time waiting for you.”

She was not really put out; he could tell that from her voice. She was
in one of her slightly naughty and entirely feminine moods, excited and
truculent. The threat might mean anything; in his present loneliness he
did not care.

He left her without speaking, shut the door of the staircase carefully
behind him, turned on the switch which lit the bedroom above and ran up
into it, to come to a sudden halt on the threshold. Someone was there,
lying on the bed, the shadows of the high footboard hiding her face. He
knew who it was before he went over and looked down.

Julia was lying on her back, her hands behind her head, her eyes wide
open and very dark. There was no expression whatever on her face and he
got the impression that she was not breathing. She watched him silently,
only her grave eyes, dark with exhaustion from the emotional struggle
she had lost, flickering to show that she was alive.

Timothy stood looking a moment and then made as if to turn away from
her, his face working, and she put up her arms and pulled him down.

For a little while he let the tide of relief and peace close over him
but as the surge rose up in his blood he took hold of himself and pushed
her away as he struggled to get up.

“No. Stop it,” he whispered fiercely. “Not here I tell you. Not in this
hole and corner. I won’t let you. You’re mine as well as your own. We’ve
got something to lose, my—my holy one. ‘With my body I thee worship’
and don’t forget it.”

“I don’t care.” She was shaking and her face was wet against his cheek.
“I was promised. I was _promised_. I can’t go on. I can’t. Not any
more.”

“Be quiet!” He took her shoulders and forced her away from him back
against the pillows. “Listen and for God’s sake try to understand. I’ve
just been involved in a sort of . . . _birth_. It has been happening to
me all day. I feel that until today I’ve been breaking out of it.
Everything I’ve ever taken for granted has come apart in my hand. Do you
know that even until tonight I secretly believed that somehow it would
turn out in the end that Alison _was_ my aunt and Eustace _was_ my
father? Well, they’re not. What is more, it must always have been
perfectly obvious that they were not. Eustace is a honey, a sweetie, a
charmer, but he couldn’t be anybody’s father. I saw it quite
clearly—almost in an offhand casual sort of way—when I went in
tonight. I’ve known him all my life and never appreciated before, what
every adult must have felt about him. Julia, don’t you see what this is
_doing_ to me? I’m altering. I’m coming down to earth. I don’t know what
I’m going to turn out to be.”

She was rigid and the tears were forcing themselves between her closed
lids. “What about _me_? Oh Timothy. What about me?”

“Understand.” It was the ultimate appeal, as young as childhood and as
old as the world. “I must exist. I can’t float about unattached and
meaningless. I’m a component part. I’m the continuation of an existing
story, as is everybody else. I thought I knew my story but I don’t. I
have been misinformed in a very thorough way. I’ve got to go on and find
out who I am, or I’m unrecognisable even to myself.”

The girl’s eyes opened and her hot little mouth was salty as she pulled
him to her.

“I’m here. Don’t shut me out. I shan’t change. I _can’t_ change. I love
you. I’m all love.”

“How do I know?” He was pulling back from her in terror. It was the last
question of all.

There was a long silence and then she sat up; suddenly the stronger of
the two. “Well,” she said with the courage of certainty, “if the rest of
the world has changed for you, have I? Look and see. Love isn’t love if
it alteration finds. That’s how you know, I thought.”

It was a gesture of curious generosity. Its blessing flowed over him
cool and comforting. He sat down on the bed and held her hands and
looked at her and she met his eyes and presently they began to laugh.

They were so engrossed that the clatter of the staircase door and the
flying footsteps took a second or so to break through to them, and Basil
Toberman was already on the threshold when they first became aware of
anything but each other.

For some moments he stood just inside the room, staring like a
scandalised frog. His eyes were bulging and his mouth was very red and
wet as usual while they sat blinking at him.

“Do you know the police are downstairs,” he demanded, fixing his
pop-eyed stare on Timothy alone. “They want you to go to Holborn
headquarters with them. Apparently the office of the Stalkey brothers
has gone up in flames. It’s been a hell of a fire. Four brigades. They
don’t know if they’re going to revive the night watchman. You’d better
come down pretty pronto if you don’t want them trooping up here. In my
opinion, for what it’s worth, they’ve got ‘arson’ written all over
them.”

He turned to Julia, truculent and offensive. “This ruddy young fool is
in plenty of trouble as it is,” he said. “I should sneak out the back
way and slide quietly home if I were you. I’ve got to dash off and catch
a plane or I’d offer to take you. Meanwhile I shall hold my tongue until
I get back. So make the most of it, my dear. Come down and placate these
chaps, Tim. Never say I didn’t mean well.”




                                   10
                       Conference in the Morning


Superintendent Charles Luke at breakfast in his own home was something
to see, Mr. Campion reflected as he sat opposite him in the kitchen of
his mother’s house in Linden Lea, one of the newest north-west suburbs.
It was a very bright room, so clean that it might have been made of
highly glazed china, and the wide window looked out on a neat bright
garden with white stone paths, smooth green grass, and geraniums all in
a row.

In this setting Luke appeared larger and more lithe, darker and more
vital even than usual. With his chin freshly shaved, his linen freshly
laundered, his crisp, upstanding hair newly oiled and his teeth
gleaming, he appeared part and parcel of the whole. Old Mrs. Luke’s
lifework, a credit to London, the Police and a Good Woman’s one pair of
hands.

Despite it he was bearing up pretty well, Mr. Campion noticed, wearing
the cherishing with good-natured ease, and even now at a quarter past
seven in the morning his native Cockney exuberance was unimpaired.

“I’m glad you came along,” he said, his eyebrows rising even higher than
usual. “The office is like any other Government Department—not an ideal
place to be seen taking an unofficial interest in an old friend’s
private griefs. It’s not a question of the odd snake or so, you
understand; just human nature and the requisite spot of common. Here we
can say what we like and no harm done. Even Mum is out of earshot.”

Mr. Campion glanced behind him. “I wondered about that,” he said
anxiously. “I hope I’m not keeping her out of here.”

“Don’t you worry!” Luke was amused in his own ferocious way. “You
couldn’t do that, Chum. Not if you were the Pope. Fortunately she’s
attending to the baby. That young woman is saving my life mopping up
some of her energy.” He reached for a piece of toast and attacked it,
including his guest in the campaign with a gesture. “Well now, as soon
as you phoned I got on to Inspector Hodge who is my assistant on nights
this week—I don’t think you know him.” He blew out his cheeks, sketched
in a waterfall moustache with three fleeting fingers, and favoured
Campion with a slightly rakish leer, producing by the performance a
lightning portrait of someone alarmingly real. “He’s a good chap,” he
said. “Old school cop. All beer, brain, and bullockheart. Very
comforting to have behind you. Thank you for leaving it till six A.M. by
the way. The young woman was not so considerate, I have no doubt?”

“No. She telephoned at one in the morning.”

“Frightened stiff I suppose?”

“Upset.”

Luke put his shorn head on one side. “Does she believe her Timothy could
have done it?”

Mr. Campion sighed and his eyes were carefully expressionless behind his
spectacles. “I don’t quite know what has happened yet. All I’ve been
told is that the young man was taken to the Thurstable Inn station where
he is said to be ‘helping the police’ in their investigation.”

“Ah.” Luke was satisfied. “I’ve got a bit more and the rest will come in
in a minute. When I rang, Hodge had only got the preliminary. So far
it’s the simplest case of arson I’ve ever heard of. Evil without frills.
You were at the place yesterday, I believe?” He was more than usually
inquisitive, his narrow eyes watchful. “I hear there’s an ordinary,
old-fashioned street-door with a letter-box hole in the middle. The
typical square job with an iron surround and a flap but no actual box.
The mail falls straight on to the mat as it did in grandpa’s day. Is
that right?”

“I couldn’t tell you. The door stands open during office hours and I
imagine the postman comes right in.”

“Very likely.” Luke dismissed the point as unimportant. “Anyway it’s a
mean entrance. Bare boards and peeling paint and a short flight of
wooden stairs leading to the main staircase, just inside. It’s an old
building which has undergone several conversions in its time. Am I right
so far?”

“Yes I think so. My impression has always been that it was a bit pokey,
you know. Dark and over-full of the eternal grained panelling. Horribly
inflammable, I should think. Where did the fire start?”

“That’s it. Just inside the front door. Someone merely posted three or
four packets of household firelighters of the ordinary paraffin-wax
type, the final one of which was alight.” Luke laughed without
amusement. “Brilliantly simple and purely venal. The stairwell acted as
a flue with a draught under the door, and the caretaker brewing up in
the basement found he’d got five floors of blazing building over his
head before he noticed the smell. The door burned in the end but not
immediately and there was enough evidence to point to the firelighters.
Actually one empty carton was found in the yard.”

“When was this?” Mr. Campion was listening in horror.

“Last night. The alarm went out at eight-thirty-four and the street door
would have been closed around six. That’s as near as they’d got when
Hodge rang. The caretaker is in no condition to talk, but if he followed
his normal routine he would have toured the building and wouldn’t have
gone down to the basement where he was found half suffocated until just
before seven. It’s too early to say how long a fire like that would take
to get the hold it did, but I should say that your lady client’s young
man must have spent the night telling the boys at the Thurstable Inn
station just exactly where he was between seven and eight-thirty.”

The thin man hesitated. “He was with us in Bottle Street until about a
quarter to seven, I suppose,” he said slowly.

“Fair enough.” Luke glanced at a note which he had propped up against a
packet of cornflakes beyond his plate.

“Some bright young constable who knows him seems to have leapt forward
with the information that he saw him coming home in ‘a dazed condition’
to that house of the Kinnits in Scribbenfields at approximately
eight-twenty. He must have been somewhere.”

Mr. Campion did not speak. He sat looking into his coffee cup until the
Superintendent laughed.

“What does the crystal ball say?”

“Not enough!” Campion set down the cup and smiled at his old friend.

“I suppose we have to thank the Stalkey brothers for the promptness of
police action?” he murmured.

“That doesn’t surprise me, does it you?” Luke leant back in his chair,
gupped discreetly, and produced a packet of cigarettes from his coat
pocket. “Look here,” he said without looking up. “I’ve got complete
faith in your judgment and I liked the girl, but while we’re in lodge,
so to speak, are you quite sure we’re on the right horse in this
business?”

Mr. Campion’s pale eyes flickered wide open. “It’s not a doubt which had
occurred to me,” he said frankly. “Why?”

Luke hunched his wide shoulders and shook his cropped head from side to
side with exaggerated uncertainty.

“There’s a sort of awful similarity between this arson story and the
original bit of bother out at Ebbfield. Both crimes have a frightening
streak of modern efficiency in mischief about them. I shouldn’t like to
explain what I mean in court.” He raised his long hands absently and
sketched in the sweeping lines of a full-bottomed wig. “It’s not
evidence at all, but if you’d seen the damage done to that flat you’d
know what I mean. There’s something young and elemental and damn bad in
both crimes.”

“I understood Timothy Kinnit had a very good alibi for the Ebbfield
affair,” Mr. Campion objected gently.

“So he had.” Luke agreed. “‘Police-proof’ is how it was described to me.
They’re very clever, these modern kids. They know how to gang up, too,
better even than we did.”

Mr. Campion frowned, his kindly face was genuinely puzzled. “Frankly I
don’t see your argument,” he said. “According to Julia he’s mad keen to
know who he is.”

“Ah, that is what he _says_,” Luke objected patiently. “That’s his
story. But it’s a new one, isn’t it? He’s lived over twenty years and
he’s never tried to find out before, has he? It’s the proposed marriage
which has set this hare running, don’t forget that. As soon as the
marriage appears on the horizon—before even the girl’s father pops up
with his little query—the Kinnits get busy because they know they’re
going to be asked the awkward question. Detectives are employed, the
whole family becomes excited and suddenly the boy makes a move. He does
something about it. He makes a secret, rather silly but dramatic action
to discourage the searchers.”

Mr. Campion made a sound of protest.

“Why?” he demanded. “Why do you suppose this? An intelligent educated
boy with a good record, good at sport, every future prospect excellent!
Why should he suddenly start behaving like a lunatic thug?”

Luke leant further back in his chair and there was a disarming touch of
colour in his dark cheeks. He was laughing and a little embarrassed.

“You’re a dear chap, Campion,” he said. “I like you and I like your
approach. It makes me feel I’m riding in a Rolls but sometimes I wonder
if you’re not a bit too nice, if you see what I mean. Look at it from my
point of view. Here is a boy—not a specially bred one, conditioned over
the generations to withstand a bit of cosseting like a prize dog—but an
ordinary tough boy same like I was, packed with his full complement of
pride and passion, and he’s brought up to believe quite falsely that
he’s inherited the blessed earth. Money, position, background, servants,
prospects. He’s got the lot handed to him on a plate all for being his
handsome self. He makes an effort and he’s successful as well. Finally
he gets the girl he’s set his heart on. She’s an heiress, a beauty, and
a social cop. For a dizzy fortnight or so he is the topmost, the
kingpin, the biggest orange on the whole barrow! And then, at that very
moment, what happens? A ruddy great Doubt as big as a house crops up.
Security vanishes and there’s a hole at his feet. The people he has
known all his life as the cornerstone of his existence suddenly start
employing private detectives—_detectives_—half-baked stuffed owls like
Joe Stalkey!—to go and find out who he, _he_ himself, the sacred
one-and-only—who he _is_? Blimey! Couldn’t that send him bonkers?
Couldn’t it?”

He finished the little oration with one hand outstretched and his
eyebrows disappearing into his hairline. Mr. Campion remained looking at
him curiously.

“I see what you suggest,” he said at last. “I do, Charles. I do indeed.”

“But it hadn’t occurred to you before?”

“No, no it hadn’t. ‘Conditioned over the generations to withstand
cosseting’ is a new conception to me.”

Luke laughed. “I could be wrong,” he said. “The kid could be exceptional
and tough enough to take the treatment. But also I could be right. It’s
delicate going. One doesn’t know where one is. My advice is play it
cautiously and I’m glad we had a chat out here.”

The telephone bell from the shelf behind him cut short his warning and
he took the call eagerly. The voice at the other end was a steady rumble
and Mr. Campion waited, his fingers drumming absently on the brightly
printed cloth. When Luke hung up his face was shadowed.

“Hodge has had a word with the D.D.I, and has been at the Thurstable Inn
station all night,” he announced. “The information is that the lad is
bloody-minded and won’t talk at all, so that’s not very promising. He
says he was at Ebbfield during the relevant period but won’t say why or
who he saw there. He merely describes the borough, which is damn silly
considering Ron Stalkey had already found him there in the morning. I
don’t know what he’s playing at.”

Mr. Campion hesitated. “He may be just growing very angry,” he ventured.

“Whatever he’s growing it’s trouble!” said Luke drily. “He’s asking for
it and the Kinnits are behaving like lunatics. One always finds it with
these well-off eggheads. They must live in space-helmets in the normal
way of things! The moment life touches them on the skin they panic and
start plaguing absolutely any eminent bird they happen to know
personally to ‘pull strings’!” He pushed his chair back noisily from the
table and stood up, six and a half feet of righteous indignation. “Hodge
says that amongst others Eustace Kinnit has telephoned the President of
the London and Home Counties National Bank and the Keeper of the Speight
Museum of Classic Antiquities in his attempt to find someone of
influence to help him get the lad released. Neither of them as much use
as my poor old Auntie Glad, and just about as unlikely! The kindest
thing you could do, Campion, is to go down there right away and tell
them gently to stop being so silly, antagonising the police!” He paused
in full flight. “Oh and by the way, in the middle of all this a thought
occurred to me. How did she know?”

“Who?”

“The young woman. The police didn’t get round to the Well House after
him until close on midnight and they wouldn’t have let him do any
telephoning. Yet by one she’d got on to you? How come? I thought there
was supposed to be no liaison there on father’s orders.”

Mr. Campion appeared interested. “Odd,” he said. “But, yes of course,
the nurse. Don’t forget the nurse, the ubiquitous Mrs. Broome.”

“Ah, very likely.” Luke was satisfied. “She keeps on cropping up, that
woman.”

“That’s her way.” Mr. Campion got up as he spoke, and smiled briefly. “I
must apologise for my dubious chums. Thank you for the breakfast,
Charles, and all the good counsel.”

He became silent. The door had opened and old Mrs. Luke, who was a force
in her own right, came puffing in. She was carrying a baby of eighteen
months or so whose arms were clasped tightly about her neck, so that she
peered at him over the infant’s shoulder. Her arrival was like a train,
full of steam and bustle. She was very small and square, with Luke’s own
narrow black eyes and a ridiculous hair-do, tight and strained to her
head and finished with a knob on top.

“I wondered when you were coming to see her, Mr. Campion,” she said
reproachfully. “Men are frightened of babies I know, but she’s past that
stage now, aren’t you, Love?”

The child which, Campion saw, was tall and fair suddenly turned its head
and looked at him directly. His heart jolted and dismay crept over him.
There it was, just as he had feared, the face again! Prunella
Scroop-Dory herself, Luke’s lost enchantress, had not had higher arches
to her brows nor the promise of a rounder, more medieval forehead.

Mr. Campion had not disliked Prunella for her own sake but for Luke’s,
and now he pulled himself together hastily and said all the right things
with the best grace in the world.

“What is her name?”

Luke grinned. “Hattie,” he said. “Her Mum, God bless her, wanted her
called Atalanta, which is sweet but silly in a daughter of mine. It was
after a character who was always being chased. This is the best we can
do.”

Old Mrs. Luke beamed happily at the visitor.

“My daughter-in-law wasn’t chased enough,” she remarked. “A sweeter
woman never drew breath but she didn’t think enough of herself, being
too well trained. That won’t happen to you, Love, will it?”

The baby, appealed to, laughed revealingly as infants often do and the
startled Campion found himself confronted by Prunella’s aristocratic
face with Luke’s Cockney intelligence blazing out of it like the sun in
the morning. He went off feeling chastened and secretly apprehensive. It
had occurred to him that in fourteen or fifteen years there might well
be a personality of considerable striking force in Linden Lea. He put
the thought from him; at the moment he had more immediate trouble to
contend with. As soon as he was well out of the district he stopped the
car at a kiosk and called Julia.

She answered at once, which told him that she had been waiting at the
telephone, and her reaction to his cautious _précis_ of the news to date
was swift and practical.

“I think we ought to see the family at once,” she said. “I’ll meet you
at Scribbenfields in twenty minutes.”

“Very well. But are you going to find that embarrassing? I mean—I
thought there was a certain amount of pressure to keep you apart.”

“Oh, I’m past all that.” The tired young voice pulled him up and
reminded him of the bright, sharp world of his teens in which all
colours were vivid and pain was always acute.

“Of course,” he said. “I’m sorry. I’ll be there.”

With a little manoeuvring they contrived to meet on the doorstep which
now, in mid-morning, was in a boiling stream of passers-by, hurrying
business people speeding past in a flurry of fumes and dust in the
bright haze. Any apprehension which Campion might have felt about their
welcome was dispelled by Eustace, who opened the door to them himself.
After his first blank stare of non-recognition, his face lit up like a
delighted child’s.

“Splendid!” he exclaimed unexpectedly. “Hooray! Just the two minds we
want on the problem. This is wonderful. We’re all up in the sitting room
putting our heads together you know. Putting our heads together!” It
would have been untrue and unkind, to have suggested that he was
enjoying the emergency, but the unaccustomed crisis was certainly
exercising emotions he did not usually experience and there was new
colour in his cheeks. He led them to the big room with the pink
upholstery and the garden of cacti on the hearth. Alison and Mrs.
Telpher, the family likeness less acute now that they were together,
were talking to a round middle-aged man who wore careful clothes and
possessed the solicitor’s occupational expression of slight incredulity.

He turned as they appeared and regarded them doubtfully as Eustace made
the introductions.

“And this is Mr. Woodfall,” Eustace said. “He has looked after our
affairs for years but not, I’m afraid, in this sort of caper. We’re
having a little difficulty, Campion. Tim won’t ask for a legal
representative to be present and Woodfall can’t very well force himself
on the police, he tells me.” There was the faintest hint of enquiry in
the words and Campion met the lawyer’s eyes with sympathy. Mr. Woodfall
looked away at once.

Meanwhile Alison turned from the open bureau where she had paused in her
restless wandering. A fault in a half-written page lying there had
caught her attention and she had stooped to correct it in exactly the
same way that another type of woman might have paused in a trying
situation to put a picture straight. “I don’t know what’s the matter
with the boy,” she said, replacing the pen carefully in its tray. “It’s
so unlike him to be awkward. You’ve never found him _awkward_, have you,
Julia?”

The query focussed everyone’s attention on the girl and everybody
noticed at the same moment how angry she was. Her face was pale and
strained and her eyes were dark with misery. “I think he may be in a
very excited condition,” she said huskily. “After all, he’s had rather a
lot to put up with.”

“I suppose he has.” It was Mrs. Telpher speaking from her seat in the
corner of the long couch. She was an oasis of calm in the room, sitting
there in her quiet clothes, aloof and elegant. “I don’t really know him,
of course, and he’s not terribly like the rest of the family, naturally.
Much more dominant in many ways.” She smiled kindly at Julia. “A man of
action. It stands out, you know. But I don’t think he’d do anything
capricious, would he? He must feel he can manage on his own. Am I
right?” She glanced at Eustace, who nodded.

“Yes,” he said. “Very good, Geraldine. Dominant; that is the word.
That’s a very good word. I don’t see why he’s being kept there, though,
I really don’t.”

Mr. Campion drifted towards Mr. Woodfall, who moved back a little.

“The Stalkey brothers are being very explicit, I suppose?” Campion
murmured the words but Alison heard him from across the room and paused,
like some slender bird, her grey eyes penetrating.

“It was I who persuaded Mr. Woodfall to let us employ the Stalkeys
again,” she remarked. “In fact I suppose I started the whole wretched
business. Eustace was all for letting sleeping dogs lie and now I
realise he may have been right, but I expected that we should have an
enquiry from Julia’s father and I thought we ought to be ready for it to
save embarrassment. I had no idea that old Mr. Stalkey had died and the
sons would prove to be so inferior. My recollection of the old man was
that he was rather kind and not really too unintelligent.”

“I assure you they are very reliable people.” If Mr. Woodfall had
requested her in so many words to cease being indiscreet, he could
hardly have made his meaning more clear. He took a fine antique watch
from his waistcoat and consulted it and directed a brief smile at the
whole company. “I must go,” he said. “If the young man should decide to
change his mind and answer perfectly proper police questions, don’t
hesitate to call on me and I shall do the best I can.”

“You’re behaving as if you think he did it!” Julia’s youth betrayed her
and Mr. Woodfall shied like a startled pony before the outburst. He
became very severe.

“Not I, young lady,” he said. “You don’t either, I hope?”

“No, I know he didn’t.”

“Ah. Was he with you?” He pounced on the idea hopefully but relapsed
into gloom again when she shook her head.

“I just know he couldn’t have done anything so silly.”

“You’re very lucky to be able to speak with such conviction for any
man.” He laughed as he spoke, not unkindly but with that little edge of
superiority which is cynicism’s only privilege, and returned to Alison.
“I must go.”

“Must you? I thought you were staying to lunch.” Nevertheless she moved
to the door with him as she spoke, and his laughing protest that he had
two appointments before then in his office, and could see himself out,
floated back to them from the passage.

“That reminds me, Eustace.” Alison spoke as she came hurrying back into
the room and took a large, old-fashioned public-house menu card from a
drawer in the bureau. It was a dog-eared product, the blanks on the
printed folder filled with cramped handwriting in violet ink. “I always
forget to do this,” she went on, “and they do like it early. Let me see.
There’s oxtail. Will you like that?”

Eustace smiled at the visitors.

“We used to have the most frightful bothers about meals,” he said with
the shy charm which was his most attractive attribute. “With the
vanishing of the domestic it seemed to me that food in the home was
destined to be a thing of the past for anyone like myself who is purely
an intellectual worker, but I might have known my wonderful sister. Now
she merely rings up the Star and Garter down the road, and lo and behold
we have luncheon on our own table as we always did.” He hesitated and
his lips, which looked so pink in his beard, twisted wryly. “The fare is
rather nasty, of course, but one can’t help that.”

Alison laughed. She was pink and girlish at his praise. “Is it the food
or the china?” she enquired. “I shall never know. Those very thick,
smeary plates with the smudged blue crest are terribly off-putting, but
one can’t very well scrape everything off on to Wedgwood, it would get
so messy.”

“And cold!” said Eustace. “And there would be two lots of washing up for
someone. Oh no, I think we do very well. Yes. I’ll have the oxtail but
not peas. I don’t like their plastic peas. I shall stick to onions. They
do onions very nicely.”

“Eustace has onions every day of his life and with everything.” Alison
was still gay.

“Better be safe than sorry!” said Eustace, sounding as if he thought the
phrase was original. “Now. Who is going to join us? You Geraldine, I
know, but how about Julia and Campion?”

“And Aich.” Alison was scribbling on a telephone pad. “Geraldine, you
and I will have the plaice, I expect, and Aich will have the joint
whatever it is. A great meat-eater, Aich.”

“Thank you.” Geraldine drew her beautifully shod feet up on to the sofa
beside her as she spoke. Her Italian shoes suggested wealth more
discreetly than any other single item he had ever seen, Mr. Campion
reflected. “What about Mrs. Broome?” she enquired wistfully. “Doesn’t
she eat?”

“Nanny Broome does her own catering. She’s not with us up here all the
time, you see. She won’t touch anything cooked outside.” It was evident
that Alison saw nothing incongruous in the statement. “I pay her extra
money and she fends for herself.”

“Interesting,” Eustace said with apparent seriousness. “I don’t think
she’s a vegetarian either. Now Julia, my dear, can I tempt you to a dish
of oxtail?”

The girl looked at him with flickering disbelief.

“No,” she said firmly. “Thank you very much but aren’t we going to do
something about Tim?”

“I agree.” Alison was jotting down the luncheon order as she spoke. “But
of course there are two schools of thought about whether one _should_
interfere even if one knew quite _how_. Eustace found the police most
unco-operative when he went down there last night. And then one doesn’t
know what Tim’s own attitude is. At the moment we’re relying on Flavia
Aicheson. She’s gone down to see the Ebbfield Councillor.”

Mr. Campion heard the news with dismay. “I don’t think the police react
very favourably to high-powered pressure from outside,” he began
hesitantly.

“I know! And it’s not easy to get it either!” Alison’s grey eyes met his
own. “People want to help one but they don’t feel they ought to. The
Councillor, whose name is Cornish, was quite abrupt with poor Aich this
morning when she telephoned him. They’re old enemies and Aich took a
risk in approaching him, but she regards Tim as a nephew and just put
her pride in her pocket and went ahead. When Mr. Cornish said he
wouldn’t go to the Thurstable Inn station to speak for the boy she just
hung up the receiver and went down to fetch him.”

“But why?” Julia exploded. “Why upset the police by getting hold of
someone who doesn’t even want to worry them?”

Alison remained happily unruffled.

“Of course,” she said kindly. “You don’t know, but Tim went to Ebbfield
yesterday and saw this man. He happened to mention it when he came in.
We’re naturally hoping that they were together at the important time.
The only awkward thing seems to be that the boy didn’t make it clear to
Mr. Cornish why he had called on him, and so when this query came up the
man immediately wondered if the visit had been made on purpose to
manufacture an alibi. He seems to be a difficult person with a highly
suspicious mind.”

“Wait!” Eustace spoke from the window where he was standing looking down
into the street. “Here _is_ Aich getting out of a cab. Ah yes, she’s got
the man with her. This must be he. He couldn’t be anything but a
firebrand councillor, could he? Look. Oh! yes, by George! Yes. This is
wonderful. Tim is with them. They’ve got him away. Wait a moment; Mrs.
Broome may still be out with that extraordinary wreath. I’ll go and let
them in.”




                                   11
                             The Councillor


Miss Aicheson was first into the room. She came striding across the
black polished boards which were scattered with fine worn old rugs, and
the ancient timbers shook beneath her while the dust motes in the shaft
of London sunlight, streaming through diamond panes, danced wildly at
her approach. She looked tired but triumphant and she turned to Alison
for praise.

“Done it!” she announced. “Tim is on the stairs now. Councillor Cornish
is with us, and by the way, dear, I think _all_ the credit ought to go
to him.”

“Oh _splendid_! Quite, quite wonderful, Aich.” Alison Kinnit’s emphasis
was nearly generous but her glance wandered at once to the menu in her
hand and she almost mentioned it, only thinking better just in time as
the Councillor, with Eustace fussing behind him, appeared in the
doorway.

Here in the Well House, Councillor Cornish was still a vigorous
personality, but this morning there was a new wariness about him and
there was caution in the fierce eyes under the shock of grey hair. His
astonishment on meeting Alison for the first time was slightly funny.
Her thistledown quality appeared to bewilder him, and if he had actually
said that he had expected to see a second version of Miss Aicheson he
could hardly have made the point more clearly.

The reaction was not new to Miss Kinnit and she became more feminine
than ever, twittering and smiling.

“Thank you, thank you. We are all so very relieved.” Her intelligent
eyes met his own gratefully. “I’m just ordering lunch. You will join us,
won’t you?”

“I? No, really!” He sounded appalled. “Thank you very much of course,
but I only want to have a word with the young man.” He was preparing to
explain further when an interruption occurred. Tim had arrived. He
glanced round the room, caught sight of Julia and walked over to her,
his face dark as a storm.

“_Darling!_” he exploded. “I did so pray that you’d have the good sense
to keep right out of this! Why didn’t you do what I told you?” He was on
edge and his protest was unreasonably savage.

The colour rushed into Julia’s face, Eustace made a deprecating cluck,
and everyone was startled by the Councillor, who turned on the speaker.

“_Don’t_ shut her out when she’s backing you up!” he exclaimed
violently. Realising his interference was outrageous, he tried to cover
it. He smiled at Julia, rubbed his ear and shot a sidelong, slightly
sheepish smile at Timothy.

“I’m sorry,” he said. “Can I meet the young lady?”

It was a direct apology and Tim relaxed.

“I do beg your pardon,” he said quickly. “Yes, of course. I’m afraid I
was surprised to see her here. Julia, this is Councillor Cornish but for
whom I should be in jug, I suppose.”

“Would you? That’s what I wanted to talk to you about. Is there anywhere
where we could have a word on our own?”

“Yes, of course.” Timothy looked surprised but acquiescent and the
unexpected objection came from Eustace.

He came forward, smiling, so smooth in his old-fashioned way that both
the Councillor and Tim appeared clumsy beside it.

“You two mustn’t shut any of us out,” he said gently. “We want to hear
all about it. We’ve been sitting here completely in the dark, consumed
by a most natural curiosity. I know a little about the fire because I’ve
read the report in the _Telegraph_, but that’s all. Why did you decide
to keep so silent, my boy? Our solicitor was most anxious to be present
at any interrogation. Why didn’t you co-operate?”

Tim shrugged his shoulders. He looked tall and big-boned standing there,
his face, which was still scarred, pale and stiff with fatigue. He eyed
Eustace and laughed. “Because I was sulking, I suppose.”

“But was that wise?” Eustace was at his mildest, innocently enquiring
without a trace of malice.

“No. It was silly. But they made me absolutely furious.”

“You’re talking about the police?”

“Yes.”

Eustace jerked his chin up and his neat beard looked sharp.

“They have a very fine reputation,” he said gravely and his eyes were
reproachful rather than severe.

“Well, they got my goat.” Timothy was being factual. “Probably I was in
the wrong, but to drag me out in the middle of the night and keep me in
a smelly office while two high-powered thugs told me I must know what
I’d done, and would I ‘come clean,’ for hours and hours on end seemed
high-handed.”

“But you could have told them where you’d been.”

“If they’d been polite about it I should have, but they were excited
because it was such a damned awful fire. They knew Ron Stalkey had been
right about his beating me up because they could see my face and so they
assumed that everything else he’d said about me setting light to his
blessed office was probably true. The whole inference was so insulting
and so _silly_, I’m afraid I just wouldn’t play.”

Eustace was both hurt and amazed.

“But Tim,” he said. “You’re a civilised, intelligent young man. The
police couldn’t have behaved as you represent. Not the _British_ police
. . .”

The young man opened his mouth and shut it again and a sullen shadow
settled over his eyes. At the same time there was a smothered sound from
the Councillor, and as everybody turned to look at him it was discovered
that he was laughing.

Eustace’s glance grew cold.

“You don’t agree with me?” he said so charmingly and with such disarming
diffidence that the unobservant could have been misled.

“Of course I don’t!” The Councillor checked himself. “I mean I’m afraid
I don’t. I’m inclined to think that the young man has summed up the
position pretty accurately. After all, the police are men. Only a nation
which can honestly believe that by putting a boy in a helmet it can turn
him into something between a guardian angel and a St. Bernard dog
overnight, could make the British Police Force what it is today, the
worst used, worst paid, most sentimentalised-over body in creation.”

Eustace regarded him with frank amazement.

“Good Heavens!” he said. “You consider there should be reform, do you?”

Something of the same sullenness which Eustace’s reactions evoked in
Timothy appeared in the Councillor.

“I am not to be drawn,” he said cagily, “but I feel it might help if
this country sometimes ceased to consider the police either through
motorists’ goggles or rose-coloured spectacles. As it is, ninety-nine
per cent of them have chips on their shoulders. Since I don’t want my
affairs dealt with by chaps who feel like that if I can possibly help
it, I keep away from the police as much as I can.” He paused and laughed
again. “If one’s forced to talk to them, go to the top. The chaps at the
top in the police are all men with something remarkable about them.
They’ve got to be. They’re the people who’ve been through the process
without cracking.”

“You amaze me.” Eustace conveyed very nicely that he did not believe a
word of it. “But at the same time I don’t see why Timothy _refused to
help_. That is the point which mystifies me. I should have said that
Timothy was the most courteous and obliging lad in the world. Why Tim?
Why didn’t you tell them where you had been?”

On the other side of the room Mr. Campion, who had been standing quietly
by the window effacing himself with his usual success, began to find the
conversation painful. This purely mental approach to what was after all
a most acutely, emotional problem, at least for Timothy, was getting
under his skin and he turned to Geraldine Telpher who was sitting
listening, her head bent and her gaze fixed on her folded hands.

“How is the child?” he murmured. “May one ask?”

He was startled by her reaction. She was taken by surprise and the grey
Kinnit eyes which met his own were dilated for an instant. “I’m so
sorry,” he said, embarrassed. “I shouldn’t have asked you so suddenly.”

“Not at all.” She became herself again, calm and intelligent. “It’s very
kind of you. It’s only that sometimes I find I’m not quite as brave as I
think I am. Then I panic. She’s just the same, thank you. Still
unconscious. This is the second year.”

Mr. Campion was appalled. “I had no idea. How old is she?”

“Nine. It’s tragic, isn’t it?” Her voice was intentionally inexpressive
and he felt compelled to continue the conversation until she had
recovered.

“Where is she? In hospital?”

“Yes. In St Joseph of Arimathæa’s. In a public ward!” Her smile was very
wry. “It’s ironic but it can’t be helped and she knows nothing. I was
told that her only hope was to come to London to be seen by Sir Peter
Phyffe. He’s one of those dedicated men who won’t take private patients
and so there she is, poor baby.” She sighed and looked away. “It was a
car accident, her governess was driving.”

Mr. Campion murmured his sympathy. “You’re very convenient here for St.
Joseph’s,” he said consolingly.

“I know. Isn’t it wonderful. Just behind us. That’s why I’m so grateful
to Eustace and Alison for asking me to stay. They really are wonderful,
aren’t they?”

Mr. Campion felt himself to be no judge of that point. Alison was still
hovering with her alarming-looking menu, while on the other side of the
room Eustace was quietly persisting in trying to get a rational
explanation for Timothy’s behaviour.

“You seem to understand the boy rather better than I do, on this
occasion at any rate,” he was saying to the Councillor, a touch of
acidity appearing in his voice for the first time. “I’m very glad you do
and we’re all eternally grateful to you for coming forward like this—I
won’t say ‘to substantiate his story,’ but anyway to give him a complete
alibi.”

The Councillor looked at him without moving his head. As he had been
staring at the floor it was a sharp upward glance through his fierce
brows, very characteristic and effective. Eustace paused abruptly,
colour in his cheeks.

“I take it that you have?” he demanded.

“I was wondering,” the Councillor said frankly. “That is why I came here
to talk to the young man himself. The police have let him go for the
time being but that hardly means that they’ve lost interest in him. All
I’ve done is to convince them that he was with me in Ebbfield during the
period when the crime was almost certain to have been committed.
‘Almost’ is not ‘quite’ though, and arson is a notoriously difficult
business to bring home to anybody. Do you see what I mean?”

“No,” said Eustace testily. “You are simply telling us that it is a
question of the time.”

“No, I’m saying it is a question of evidence. The police naturally want
to make out a case. But if their suspect can prove where he was during
the _likely_ period for the crime to have been committed, they’ve got to
think again, haven’t they? They’ve got to widen their times or find
another suspect.”

Eustace sighed. “I can’t believe the police, _our_ police, work like
that,” he said. “However I hear what you say. May I know what you want
to ask Tim?”

“You want to know if I did it, don’t you, sir?”

The young man who had been standing behind Julia’s chair put the
question wearily. He looked very tired, standing with his hands in his
pockets, the dark smudges across his eyes emphasising their colour.
“Well, I didn’t.” He rubbed his hand round the back of his head and
pulled his ear and laughed. “It was such a damn _silly_ thing to do!”

“A wicked thing!” Eustace put in quickly. He was prompting openly,
rather as if he were prodding a junior at a business conference when the
opposition was not too intelligent.

“But also imbecile!” Tim spoke with sudden affection, his warmth
noticeable beside the older man’s colder personality. “For one thing,
they’re forced by law to be fully insured and the building was patently
due for an overhaul. The fire may have saved their lives. No, if I had
felt that I wanted to get my own back on the Stalkey brothers, and
frankly, it never occurred to me, I had only to tell the story to
everyone I met. ‘Fuddy duddy firm of detectives beat up own client in
fumbling zeal.’ It couldn’t have done them any good wherever I mentioned
it and they could hardly sue.”

“All right!” Councillor Cornish wiped his eyes with amusement. He
appeared to be entertained out of all proportion to the joke. “I take
the point. I’m satisfied. Now I want to hear exactly why you came to see
me yesterday.”

“I told you. I got your name from the cobbler in the Orient Road. That
was before Ron Stalkey came in and we had the dust-up. I was waiting
there talking to him for about an hour I suppose. He’s a veteran of the
1914 war—a nice legless little bloke who talks and talks with his mouth
full of tacks. Do you know him? I imagine most people in Ebbfield do.”

“Yes, I know him. His name is Tom Tray. Did you meet his sister Dora?”

“I didn’t see a soul there until Ronald Stalkey arrived. After we
started belting each other there was a crowd, of course. I went back in
the evening to square up for any damage we’d done in the shop, but Tray
was quite happy about it and reminded me that he’d told me to go and see
you. So I did.”

“But that means you can prove that you were in Ebbfield earlier than Mr.
Cornish here was able to tell the police?” Eustace demanded.

“Yes, I know. I told you. I did not set light to the Stalkey office.”

“Nevertheless,” Eustace was persisting when the Councillor interrupted
him in his own house.

“I’ve got that,” he said to Tim. “What I want to know is _why_? How did
you think I could help you?”

Miss Aicheson could bear it no longer. “But I explained all that to you
when I was persuading you to come down to the Thurstable Inn station
this morning. Otherwise you wouldn’t have come, would you?” She spoke
from across the room, her voice more flutelike than ever. The Councillor
coloured.

“I’d like to hear it from the boy himself,” he protested, making it a
grievance. “Why did you come to see me, Tim?”

His use of the Christian name jarred on the family and the young man
himself did not answer at once but stood hesitating. It was a silent
tussle between them. The whole room was aware of it.

“Well?”

Timothy shrugged his shoulders helplessly.

“If you’ve already discussed the story with Miss Aicheson, do I really
have to tell it again?”

“About this belated search for your identity?”

“Yes.”

“I see. Having actually seen the squalor of your beginnings you’ve
become violently ashamed of them. Is that right?”

Cornish was trying to be offensive and succeeding. Eustace bristled and
Alison made a little protesting sound.

Tim laughed. It was a chuckle of irreverent amusement at the pomposity
of the accusation. His eyes narrowed, his wide mouth turned up, and a
rare shaft of gaiety which was not a normal part of his every day
make-up appeared for a flashing instant.

“My heart did not leap up when I beheld the gasworks, sir. Since you ask
me, no.”

His reaction was a relief to most people present, but the effect of it
upon the Councillor was devastating. The man appeared to freeze. He
stood rigid for an instant.

“I’m afraid I can’t help you,” he said stiffly. “I was in the R.A.F. by
the end of ’38. All we young apprentices were in the reserve. I didn’t
get to know Ebbfield very well until the war was over. Surely some
public records were saved?”

“None,” said Eustace. “Naturally we looked into that immediately.”

His mind, which was always unhappy and fumbling when emotions of any
kind were involved, seized on the purely factual point gratefully.

“It was a tremendous story. I was fascinated when I went into it. When
we first enquired during the war the books—ledgers, registers, or
whatever they were—had been evacuated and were unobtainable; when we
asked again later we were told they had been returned on the very
morning before the first great raid which destroyed half the district,
and were completely lost.”

“Yes of course. Yes, I remember now. I’ve heard that in another
connection.” The Councillor was still subdued. “I’m sorry,” he said
again, speaking to Tim. “I can’t help. What are you going to do? Shall
we expect to see you wandering about the district, looking for clues?”

“Probably not.” Eustace spoke blandly before the younger man could
reply. He was smiling in his pleasant adult way and seemed disposed to
be philosophical.

“But you can understand the boy’s interest,” he went on. “When one is a
child one gathers scraps of information about oneself, little pieces of
embroidery from nurses and so on, and one weaves perhaps a rather
romantic story until the time comes when cool reason demands facts which
are dull and even a trifle drab compared with a tale of fancy, all
moonshine and romance.”

The Councillor stared at him. “Romance!” he exploded. “My God, if you
want romance you must go to reality! The things she thinks up take the
shine out of any old invention. I’m sorry I can’t help you. If the
police need me again presumably they’ll contact me, or of course I shall
be available to any lawyer of yours. That’s really all I can do at the
moment. Goodbye.”

He would have left without shaking hands had not Eustace put out his
own, and Tim would have followed him down to let him out but there was
an unexpected development.

Julia got up and came over. She was smiling politely.

“Councillor, I’m going the same way as you are, and I must go now. We’ll
go together if you don’t mind.”

Tim looked at her in amazement and there was a moment when Cornish
hesitated and she stood placidly forcing him to think twice about being
rude to her.

“Why not?” he said at last. “Come along.”

They went out of the room with Tim behind them.

Eustace smiled first at his sister and then at the others.

“A funny fellow,” he said mildly. “In many ways an extraordinary fellow.
Did you notice he was so excitable and emotional he was almost in tears
at one point? What a character Julia is, too! She got him out of the
room in case he upset Tim any further. I like her, she has special
courage. Very rare these days.”

Alison looked at the menu in her hand.

“Now I really must make my list,” she said, “or everything nice will be
off. What will Tim have, I wonder?”




                                   12
                           The Cobbler’s Shop


Councillor Cornish paused at a bus stop and glanced down at his
companion dubiously.

He was hatless and the charcoal-coloured raincoat flapping about his
bones echoed the tint and texture of his fierce hair and eyebrows, so
that he looked like a grey Irish elkhound slinking along silently beside
an elegant child of whom he was privately terrified.

He cleared his throat: “I get my bus here for Ebbfield,” he said.

“I do too.” Julia did not look at him. There was a reckless obstinacy
about her which he was trying not to recognise, it frightened him so.

“What are you going to do in Ebbfield?” He fumbled over the words and
she moved as the red monster came bearing down on them and made a
gesture to shoo him on to it ahead of her.

“I’ve got business on the way there,” she said and followed him on to
the half-empty lower deck.

As the acceleration jerked them into a seat far up in the front, he
spoke grudgingly.

“I hear your father is a man of drive. You take after him I suppose?”

“I suppose so,” she said. “I want to talk to you about Tim.”

“I’ve told all I know. I’ve given a statement to the police. He was at
my house from approximately seven-thirty to eight o’clock. I’ve done all
I can.” He was keeping his voice down, for a London bus is no place to
shout in, and kept looking at her in a kind of horror. She had trapped
him, he saw; even a teashop would not have afforded more restraining
conditions. He could not storm out from a vehicle jolting and swaying
over the ancient stones of Scribbenfields at forty miles an hour.

Julia turned her head and regarded him with an accusing stare.

“It’s not that. You think you know who his family is, don’t you?”

“I certainly don’t! You’re off your head, young woman—”

He did not finish the sentence; the need to keep reasonably quiet was
hampering him but even so his reaction was unconvincing to himself. He
was silent for a moment and she continued to look at him.

“You do, don’t you?”

“What makes you think that?”

“Because it’s the same family as yours.”

She spoke hastily, and leaning back suddenly in her seat ran her hand up
behind her head and brought it down to pull her ear. It was a curious
gesture which was very distinctive yet familiar to him.

“I don’t do it very well,” she remarked. “But you and Tim do it all the
time, whenever you’re embarrassed. You’re doing it now.”

“You’re mad!” He pulled his hand down from his ear and sat gaping at
her. “That’s the most absurd and dangerous accusation I ever heard in my
life. I should advise you—”

She sat frowning, looking at him. “I don’t see why you’re so excited,”
she said, and her innocence becoming suddenly apparent set the ground
quaking under his feet. “Surely you’ve got _some_ relations? Tim is a
very nice person. They might be very glad to know.”

“I can’t say anything about that.” He felt as if he were shuffling his
feet.

“Of course you can’t,” she said with enormous reasonableness. “That’s
why I wanted to talk to you alone. Haven’t you got brothers or sisters
or even cousins? You see, I don’t know if you know but family
characteristics, gestures particularly, are liable to crop up most
unexpectedly. I know my father had a Canadian cousin who came over in
the army in the war. They’d never met and their parents hadn’t met since
they were literally babies, and yet the first thing this man did when he
came into the house was to push his hair, which was quite short, back
over his ears with both hands. No one had ever seen anyone but Daddy do
that. It was quite meaningless too, because neither of them had ever
worn their hair long, and—”

“You’re sure you’re right about young Timothy?” he interrupted her
gently. “About the ear-pulling?”

“Oh yes,” she smiled at him with complete assurance. “I watch everything
Tim does. I’ve seen him do it hundreds of times and so when you did it
too I watched you too. Besides, you may not know it, but you smile the
same way and the big planes at the sides of your faces are identical. It
wouldn’t be so extraordinary if you were distant relatives, would it?
You both come from the same place apparently.”

“No, I don’t come from Ebbfield,” he said woodenly. “I was born in
Norfolk. I came to London as an apprentice. I can’t help you in that way
at all. If the police want to put him through it again he can call on
me. That’s as far as I can go.”

“I see,” she said bleakly and continued to ride beside him in silence.
“It’s very good of you,” she ventured at last. “Please don’t feel we’re
not very grateful.”

He grunted and looked out over her dark head at one of the least
beautiful main roads in the world; there was mile upon mile of it, a
wide-worn ribbon lined with shabby two-storey shops and shabbier open
spaces.

“Have you ever been in love before?” He put the question so reluctantly
that it sounded angry.

“No. Not really.” She flushed and shot an apologetic smile at him. “Not
with a real person.”

“I see.” He was smiling despite himself. “And how long has it lasted so
far?”

“Oh, ever since I first saw him. It’s an ‘always and forever’: one
usually knows, I think. Don’t you?”

He drew his eyebrows together and sat for a moment framing a question
which, when it came, was utterly unexpected.

“You say you watch him all the time?” he began at last “Did you happen
to be looking at him when he made that damn silly remark about the
gasworks? I’d been taking the mickey out of him and he suddenly spiked
me with a certain kind of flippancy, with a funny sort of grin on his
mouth . . .”

“I know. Like a cat laughing.” He saw to his relief that she had not
thought the question in the least extraordinary. “He doesn’t do it
often. It’s always when some one is being a bit pomp—oh a bit grand,
you know. That’s not like your family surely, is it?”

He laughed briefly. “No,” he said. “It’s not like my family or me. Not
at all.” Once again he looked out at the dismal road and there was water
suddenly in his fierce eyes. “Not at all,” he repeated.

Julia was not listening to him. “What worries me is that it must be
someone,” she remarked. “Someone really is doing these awful things
. . .”

“Setting light to office buildings?”

“Or tearing up old people’s homes. You know Tim was asked where he was
when that flat down here in the East End was smashed up? We simply
couldn’t understand it at the time. The police were awfully polite and
cautious, and since Tim didn’t know then that the Kinnits were employing
the Stalkeys to ferret round Ebbfield the questions sounded insane. We’d
never heard of Ebbfield. He soon satisfied the detective that he hadn’t
been out of Oxford that week at all and the man went away.” She paused
and sat looking at him with wide-open eyes. “It must have been the
flat-wrecking that the police were investigating though, because it
happened about then and the Stalkey who was making the enquiry was
staying in it, wasn’t he? I only heard about that last night from Tim’s
old nurse, Mrs. Broome.”

“Where had she heard of it?”

She frowned. “I don’t know. Alison Kinnit, perhaps. But Tim must have
heard it yesterday from the Stalkey brother who attacked him, I expect
that was the real reason why he was so difficult when the police began
to question him again. Being wrongfully suspected of some crime you
don’t know anything about is all very well if it happens once, but it’s
rather different if they do it to you twice. It’s so frightening.
Suppose they pin something on him?”

“When he’s innocent?”

“Of course. That’s what I’m trying to tell you. Someone is doing these
dreadful things. Who is it?”

“How should I know?”

“But don’t you?” Her gentle persistence appalled him. “Can’t you think
round and see who it might be? Can’t you guess?”

“Why should I? What are you talking about?” His voice rose in panic and
the old working man dozing on the seat beyond them opened an eye and
regarded him with idle curiosity.

Julia sighed. “I don’t know. I’m just at the end of what I can bear, I
think. I was sitting there in that pink room, looking round at all those
people and thinking how well they all meant and how useless they all
were, and wondering who _was_ there who could possibly help us. And I
looked at you and I thought that you really were awfully like an older
Tim and you’d been dragged into the business by a sort of Act of God
anyhow, and I felt suddenly that I could _make_ you think of something
which could give us a lead.”

“Do you know what you’re saying?” He was looking at her in a kind of
horror. “Can you hear yourself?”

Tears came into her eyes. “Oh _don’t_,” she said, “Don’t bully. Just try
to help.”

The fact that she was strained to a point beyond reasoning, and was
proceeding by intuition’s reckless compass alone, came home to him. He
remained quiet watching her warily and she returned his stare, her eyes
utterly without guile. At last he became convinced that she was only
conscious of making a vague but passionately felt appeal for help and he
spoke cautiously.

“You’re thinking that because I live down here and know the people I
might be able to find out something? Is that it?”

“You’ve got some authority.”

“Suppose I find some suspect and can’t prove anything? What do you
expect me to do then?”

He had begun to breathe again and it was a return to his normal manner,
just a fraction aggressive and unsure.

“But you know what to do.” The protest was inspired. “You told everybody
less than an hour ago. You said the only thing to do was to avoid the
ordinary police and go to the very top flight. That’s what I came with
you to tell you. I know one of them. He’s a Mr. Charles Luke, a senior
something or other at New Scotland Yard. I’ve met him and I think you’re
right and one could tell him anything. He’s larger than life but—”

“I know Luke.”

“You do?” She smiled with radiant relief. “That’s miraculous! That’s
what people mean when they say a thing is ‘meant.’ Start thinking who it
might be and if it comes to you—and I’ve got a hunch it will—then you
go straight to him. You will, won’t you?”

He got up to get away from her and out into the air. There was sweat on
his forehead and he stood for a moment swinging on the rail before he
bent to take her hand.

“I get off here,” he murmured. “There’s a request stop. Goodbye.”

She held his hand tightly.

“You will try?”

“I will, God help me,” he said and hurried off the bus, leaving her to
go on alone to the Ebbfield Market Cross.

It was the next stop; she got down and paused for a moment looking about
her. The Old Cross proved to be a Music Hall now used as a box factory,
and it lay before her as ornate and derelict as a toy in a dustbin. She
was still in that strange mood when hypersensitiveness reaches the point
almost of clairvoyance, a direct product of emotional exhaustion in the
otherwise healthy. As she pulled her wide blue coat about her, and her
eyes, which echoed its colour, wandered over the immediate view, the
squalor of the place crept very close.

She was standing in a vast drab circus where five highways met and the
heavy transport vehicles rattled and crashed over a patchwork of every
known road surface. The filthy pavements were not crowded and many of
the shops which lined them were closed, yet the passers-by were all
going somewhere, all well fed and gaily dressed but apparently tired
out, their eyes dust-rimmed and their skin sallow. It was the lunch hour
and the steamy windows of the eating house, pubs, and coffee bars were
like blind eyes. For London’s East End it was a singularly uncosy
neighbourhood, neither friendly nor even noisy but hurried and dirty and
preoccupied.

The name-plate saying CARROWAY STREET above the public house on the
nearest corner caught her attention and she set out to walk down it. She
was looking for the cobbler’s shop without any very clear idea of why
she wanted to see it. Her business on the way to Ebbfield had been done.

The road was very long and passed through many phases, none of them
particularly attractive, and at one point, having walked for what seemed
like half a mile beside a twenty-foot hoarding, she almost lost heart;
but presently, as so often happens in London, the whole character of the
thoroughfare changed abruptly and it became for a hundred yards or so a
village High Street which, although decayed, was still a definite
entity.

All the familiar shops were there, the gay greengrocers, the coal
office, the rather horrible butchers, and the forlorn laundrette looking
like some unspeakable peepshow. And then, very much in keeping amongst
them, the place she was looking for.

Mr. T. K. Tray’s establishment turned out to be unexpectedly alive. It
was a double-fronted shop, with one window devoted to the boot and shoe
repair business, and the other to newspapers and magazines with a
sprinkling of cheap stationery, tobacco, and confectionery. There was a
panel of small advertisements beside the door and a notice offering an
accommodation address.

At the moment it was besieged. A fast-moving queue of chattering women,
most of whom appeared to know each other, was forcing its way into the
darkened doorway and every so often one of them squeezed back out again
and shot away like a bee from a hive, a brightly coloured periodical in
her hand.

The beginning of the queue was a crowd on the pavement, and Julia, who
could not pause outside without joining it, found herself sucked into
the jostling stream. She gathered that the cause of the excitement was
the little polythene packets of detergent being given away with one of
the Women’s magazines. They were worth perhaps a penny and each woman
was determined to get her due before the supply ran out. As soon as
Julia realised that escape was impossible until she had done the round,
she began to feel suffocated. Many of the women were factory workers,
their boiler-suits and headscarves lending them the ruthless camaraderie
which paper hats on an outing lend a charabanc load. They were all in a
hurry, all in ferocious good humour, all hot, and all laughing aloud.
The brutal noise, meaningless as a bird call, reached an intensity which
stunned her and she became swallowed up in a whirlpool of sound in which
scraps of intelligible sentences were few and all ugly. The uniformed
factory women were imitating their menfolk and swearing as they never
did in the normal way when each was as it were a private person. The
trickle of dirty fantasy threading through the crackle produced a
shocking sound which she had not met before, and which gave her the
illusion that there were no individuals present, only a single merciless
personality.

As the queue fed her relentlessly into the dark shop the stale, sweaty
smell of leather and newsprint met her in a wave, and as her eyes grew
accustomed to the shadow she saw the counter embedded in a grotto made
of magazines. Her impression was that there were two figures in the dark
cavern behind it and that one of them was telephoning at a wall
instrument hanging amid the crowded shelves, whilst the other, who was
little more than a vast stuffed bodice swinging there, was handing out
papers and packets with the speed of a machine. As she approached the
end of the line she caught sight for the first time of the half-dozen
copies of a periodical which decorated the shelf on the front of the
counter.

“_Oracle_,” it said. “_Oracle. Oracle. Oracle._”

It was as she was actually looking at the word in superstitious
astonishment that a single intelligible name suddenly leapt out of the
noise.

“Basil Kinnit!”

She heard the words as clearly as if they had been a phrase in the
mother tongue amid a torrent of foreign language.

“_Basil Kinnit!_”

There was no way of telling who had spoken. Either of the two behind the
counter could have said it or it could have come from any of the
brass-lined throats screaming about her.

“Basil Kinnit” said the oracle.

She threw down a sixpence, received her magazine, and sped out into the
air. As she came into the light again the nightmare of the shop receded
and reality broke over her like morning.

“But there’s no such person,” she said aloud. “No such person at all.”




                                   13
                        “The Top of the Police”


Councillor Cornish’s request for an immediate interview was so
unexpected that Superintendent Luke went out of his way to grant it at
once and saw his caller in one of the private interrogation rooms. It
was a square, austere office where the desk was very wide and very
solid. Too wide to lean across, too solid to be turned over. Yet the
room was pleasant enough with a view across the grey river.

They had been talking for some minutes and Luke sat prodding the
blotting paper in front of him with a long-suffering pen. He was
fascinated and his shorn head was held sideways, his black eyes fixed,
and his shoulders, which were so wide in comparison with his narrow
hips, hunched as he doodled on the folder.

Councillor Cornish sat back in his chair opposite, his feet together,
his hands folded in his lap and his head bowed in the traditional way of
resignation. It was not a conscious pose. Luke had been watching him
like a cat and had decided that the man was genuine. He was acting under
a strong compulsion moving from a sense of duty deeply rooted, and the
source of his fanaticism was unveiled. His sense of guilt was
temporarily appeased, his truculence gone. He was making his sacrifice
completely at peace.

“We shall have to check each point,” Luke said. “You know that, don’t
you?”

“I suppose so.” There was no secret complaisance. The policeman was
listening for it. “The wallowing martyr,” as he called the type, was one
of his private hates. He noticed with relief that Cornish was merely
regretful.

“Go as easy as you can with us all,” was his only request.

Luke offered him a cigarette. “Don’t worry about that, sir. We’re not
quite as hamfisted as we’re said to be. At least we try. Well now,
you’ve spent three hours with this boy and you think he could be yours.
Is that your first point?”

“Not quite. I should _like_ to think he was mine. That’s the danger. But
whether he is or not isn’t my reason for visiting you.”

Luke nodded. “I appreciate that. You’re merely going on his history as
you know it, plus certain likenesses?”

“Yes.”

“And you’d never heard that history—in regard to young Timothy Kinnit
that is—until today, when it was told you by Miss Flavia Aicheson while
she was persuading you to give evidence on his behalf? You don’t think
she realised that the history might have some significance for you?”

“Oh no. She merely wanted me to tell the police that he had visited me
yesterday evening.”

“And he had?”

“Yes.”

“Do you know why?”

“I didn’t know at the time, and this afternoon when he gave me an
explanation I didn’t believe him, but now since a certain idea has
occurred to me I think I do. He told me that the cobbler in Carroway
Street had sent him to me.”

“And in view of the likeness between you, you think the cobbler might
have done so?”

Cornish smiled. “You’re very shrewd, Superintendent,” he said, relaxing.
“Tommy Tray was mending shoes in that same shop when I first came to
Ebbfield. He’d lost both legs on the Somme in the First World War and
when I first knew him I was about the age which Timothy is now. My first
wife and I used the news-agent half of his shop, which was and is run by
his sister, as an accommodation address for our letters. My wife lived
actually in Turk Street with her only relative, an aunt who was an
illiterate, suspicious old woman whom we never trusted not to give us
away, so we used the shop very frequently and often went there. I
imagine that when Timothy went in recently, asking questions, old Tray
noticed something about him which made him send him along to me. It’s
the sort of thing he would do.”

“Your first wife?” Luke murmured, his pen resting on a note he had made.
“Excuse me, sir. Were you in fact married to her?”

“Yes.”

“It can be proved, can it? Forgive me, but it’s as well to get
everything quite clear as we go along.”

“I know. I realise too that there is a gap in all the Ebbfield records
of about that time, but although Somerset House, even, may not have the
details, I can say that I have reason to believe that at least one copy
of the marriage certificate is in existence.”

The odd phrase came out softly in the quiet room and Luke’s glance
kicked upward as if an elusive quarry he had been seeking had suddenly
appeared.

“Good,” he said, making the comment non-committal. “I have this straight
now, then. One year before the Second World War, at the time of the
famous Munich crisis, when war almost broke out, you were in Ebbfield
finishing your apprenticeship to the small tool-making firm of Boxer &
Coombe Ltd., which you now own.”

“My present wife and I own it in equal shares. She was a Miss Boxer, her
mother was a Miss Coombe.”

“Ah yes. I see.” Luke’s pen was busy again. “In autumn ’38—that is at
the time of the Munich agreement—you were a member of the Royal Air
Force Volunteer Reserve and you were called up and drafted to a training
camp in Yorkshire. Is that when you married your first wife?”

“No. We married in the first week of July of that year.” Cornish was
smiling at the recollection as if he had never thought of the ceremony
since it happened. He was remarkably relaxed and the fierce energy which
had made him a somewhat uncomfortable companion had disappeared. “We
were ‘done,’” he said, laughing a little, “in a dusty church in
Saracen’s Square. I don’t suppose you’ve ever heard of the place. It’s
all gone now. We turned up very early on the Friday morning just before
my summer holiday and we had two witnesses out of the street, a sweep
and a milkman. The parson—he sounded as if he had no roof to his mouth,
poor chap—had read the bans every Sunday for three weeks, but as he had
no congregation no one who knew of us heard him and we got clean away
with it without anyone knowing.” His grey eyes were dancing and Timothy
Kinnit, twenty-one and joyous, looked out of them at Luke, who did not
recognise him of course. “Clean away to Southend-on-the-Mud,” Cornish
went on. “A couple of kids, happy as the buds in May.”

“Why did you have to keep it a secret?” Luke was watching him with a
half smile.

“The terms of my apprenticeship!” Even at this distance he seemed to
find them vitally important. “Old Fred Boxer the boss—he was my present
wife’s father—was more than hot on that sort of thing. Originally he
came from my own home village in Norfolk and when my mother was left a
widow she sent me up to him to learn the trade. I was bound all right,
you never saw such a document!”

“I know. They are tough, those apprenticeship contracts. Did you go into
the R.A.F. as unmarried?”

Cornish nodded. “I had to. Old Fred was backing my papers. Besides, if
you remember, nothing like that seemed to matter very much just then.
There was no discernible future.”

“How right you are!” Luke’s eyes flickered in faint surprise at the
recollection. “Future dubious. That was ’38-’39 all right. Funny how one
forgets. So you went off to Yorkshire—sent all over the place in the
first draft I suppose, as an unmarried man?”

The Councillor continued to smile. “She followed me whenever she could.
She was younger in years than I was but older in intelligence. A city
girl and a country boy, that’s what we were. She did the thinking for
both of us and I let her.”

“What did she live on? Got jobs I suppose?”

“Yes. Waitress, nursemaid, anything. She was that kind of woman . . .
independent, capable, and wonderfully gay.” He looked up and made a
gesture of resignation which was disarming. “That’s the key to the whole
story. That’s how it happened and why this boy, Timothy, has knocked me
endways. People keep mentioning that he resembles _me_. My God! He not
only looks like her but he _is_ her. He’s treating his own poor little
girl now just as she treated me. He’s keeping her out of it, suffering
all alone. I never understood the bit about honouring one’s father and
mother so that _one’s days would be long in the land_ before today. If
one respects one’s parents’ fiascos at least one needn’t waste time
going over the same ground twice. I didn’t know, you see. It never went
through my mind.”

“You didn’t know she was having a child, you mean?” Luke, whose own
experiences were still very close to him, was deeply interested and
sympathetic.

“It never entered my head,” Cornish said. “I was a stupid, ignorant,
idealistic young idiot. Perhaps I never believed it worked, or
something. I don’t know. I left everything to her. As the time must have
gone on she wrote instead of coming but as I’d been moved to Scotland by
that time I wasn’t surprised. She kept saying she’d see me in October, I
remember. I had letter after letter full of everything but the important
subject.”

Luke’s wide mouth twisted. “Then the balloon went up?” he suggested.

“On the second of September. We were ordered overseas. I sent her a
telegram to her aunt’s address in the Turk Street Mile and got one back
to say she was in St. Saviour’s Hospital, Ebbfield. That was the one
which got the direct hit from a V-2 at the end of the war.”

He moved uneasily in his chair and ran his hand over his head and ear in
the gesture Julia had recognised. “I had an hour, I remember. I didn’t
know what to do and I panicked. I remember a fatherly old Flight
explaining to me patiently that I was on active service and if I
deserted I’d be shot. I telephoned at last. I had a lot of help—I was
that sort of chap. They got me a line in the end and when I got through
to the hospital I didn’t know if she’d gone in as Miss or Mrs. and there
was a hell of a flap on down there and they couldn’t find her. Finally I
heard them say Maternity Ward and I didn’t understand even then. It
meant nothing to me. I was still thinking of a street accident; that’s
what hospitals spelt to me at that time.”

It occurred to Luke that the man had never told the story before; he
could see its reality dawning upon him afresh even while he was talking.

“There was an interminable pause, I remember,” he said softly. “And the
wires were full of voices as if one was listening into the world, and
then they asked if I was the husband, and when I told them I was they
said they were afraid they had bad news. By this time the lorries were
starting and the Flight was pulling my tunic. ‘How bad?’ I said. ‘I’m
sorry,’ the voice was kind but sweety-sweet if you know what I mean,
‘she died peacefully ten minutes ago.’ I just hung up.”

The eyes which met Luke’s were still astonished. “I just hung up,” he
repeated. “I went out with the Flight and we ran for the transports. It
never even occurred to me that there might have been a baby until days
later when we were in France.”

Luke did not speak at once and the room which had heard many stories of
human insufficiency was silent and friendly.

“What did you hear from the aunt?” he enquired at last.

“Nothing. I wrote her but there was no reply, and when at last I got
back a very long time later there was no sign of her or the house. You
couldn’t even see where it had been. I found out that the whole street
had been evacuated soon after hostilities began. The authorities were
terrified of the tinder-box areas and they emptied them as soon as they
could. There were no raids at first, though, and many people had
trickled back by the time the bombs fell so the old lady may have gone
with her home. She liked it. It wasn’t as bad as most in Turk Street.”
He shrugged his shoulders. “Anyway I never got an answer and the
hospital merely referred me to her as the next of kin given. It had been
cleared for casualties on the outbreak of war and although they
confirmed the death of my wife in childbirth there was nothing on the
form about the child.” He hesitated awkwardly. “I didn’t persist, you
know,” he said, still speaking with surprise at his own inadequacy. “I
accepted the double death and put it out of my mind like . . . like a
sight seen in battle. Things were happening to me by then and I suppose
I didn’t want to know, either. We were sent to Canada and I came back a
navigator. I had a most inglorious war. Having cost the country a packet
to train I went out on my first raid, got shot down, and went straight
into the bag. It took me two years to get away.” He laughed briefly and
shook his head. “So there you are,” he said. “That old sissy Eustace
Kinnit irritated me this morning. He said something about a romantic
tale told to the boy by a nurse. My God! No nurse made up a tale like
the real one. Well that’s it, briefly. You can guess what happened when
I got back, at last. I’d had rheumatic fever whilst a P.O.W. and my
heart was gippy.”

“Your old boss was doing essential work and could use you.” Luke hardly
made it a question. It was the most natural development, the history of
thousands of young men who were early casualties in a war of tremendous
movement and change. “Where were the Boxer & Coombe works then?”

“Out at Epsom. We only got back here after old Fred died in ’48. I’d
just married his only daughter Marion, a nice girl. I’d always liked
her. She knows nothing whatever about this story, by the way.”

Luke ducked his chin. He looked most discreet and intelligent.

“And that,” he said presently, “is not all, I take it? Now we arrive at
the bit which made you come to see me.”

His eyes were friendly but very sophisticated and they filled with
surprise at the other man’s sudden reaction.

“Neither bigamy nor blackmail, Superintendent,” Cornish said briskly. “I
think I could have met either of those with less embarrassment. My
difficulty is that _I have the son of that marriage complete with his
birth certificate_ and he’s a very awkward young customer, but not I
think entirely to blame for what he is—and does. The time has come when
I feel I’ve got to clear my mind about him and so I’ve forced myself to
come to you.”

“I see, sir.” Luke had become remarkably cautious. “How do you mean ‘you
have him’?”

“I know him. I support him. His name is Barry Cornish.”

Luke recognised the mood behind the abrupt words. It was the
confessional state of mind, a phenomenon of human behaviour which never
ceased to make him nervous.

“Address?” he enquired.

“I don’t know it at this moment but I could find him. At any rate he’ll
appear at the end of the month.”

“Ah, yes.” The Superintendent pulled his jotting pad towards him once
more and waited. It was all coming. He could feel the man looking for
the best place to begin.

“I first heard of Barry at the end of ’47 when the Trays returned to
their shop. They’d been in the West Country all through the war.” The
Councillor sounded as if he were dictating and Luke coughed.

“I shan’t take it down at this moment, sir,” he murmured. “Just let it
come out as it will. We’ll sort it out later. Where were you at that
time?”

“In Epsom still. My father-in-law was ill and Marion and I were due to
inherit the business and the house where we live now. Our premises had
escaped and we were moving the works back to London. I had put up for
the Council. I was always keen on social work and the state the place
was in made me mad to get at it and see if I couldn’t get a better deal
for people.” He ran out of breath, coloured, and glanced angrily at the
policeman. “I’m not trying to excuse myself for what I did, I’m only
explaining it.”

Luke nodded gravely. “I understand, sir.”

“Then the boy turned up,” Cornish said. “I was reached through the Trays
as soon as the shop opened again. The only thing which existed to lead
to me was the envelope of a letter I had written to his mother at that
address. It was in a little cardboard writing folder she had had with
her in hospital, tucked in the back. The birth certificate was there and
so was our marriage certificate and half a letter written to me.” His
voice betrayed him and he pulled himself up savagely. “Still no mention
of the child, even though she was dying, silly girl. Only love stuff and
wishing I was with her and worrying how _I_ was. Dear God, who’d be
young, eh?”

The Superintendent’s eyebrows drew close together.

“I haven’t got this,” he said. “The child didn’t come alone, surely?”

“Oh no, of course not. It was the nuns who brought him.”

Cornish was peering at him earnestly through his fierce brows. “I’d have
taken an entirely different line if it hadn’t been for them. You must
believe that. There’s a lot in my life that I reproach myself for, but
if they hadn’t been there to look after him you must believe me that I’d
have done something more than merely paying. I’d have told Marion—”

He broke off and Luke leant across the table, a man of his own age and
outlook. “Look, sir,” he said, “don’t worry. I believe every word you’re
saying. There’s only one really impossible thing about the truth and
that’s how to tell it. The nuns brought the child to you, did they? Who
were they, Sisters of Mercy?”

“Nuns of the Good Shepherd. They’ve got a rather poor but very good
place in Crusader’s Row, almost into Islington. Do you know it?”

Luke waved him on. “Wonderful people,” he said. “How long had they had
him? Just tell me the story as it comes . . . start from the first
interview. Where did it take place?”

“At Tray’s shop. Doris Tray wrote me a note at the works asking me to
step down there. When I did she told me how some nuns had come round
asking if she knew me. We fixed a meeting and two of them turned up and
showed me a little cardboard attaché-case. It had this writing
compendium in it and a broken comb and a strap. That was all. The
sisters were very kind. There had been other items in it, no doubt, they
said. But when people were poor and tempted things got used up. That was
how they put it. They were sweet unworldly women although they appeared
to be living up to the knees in sin and dirt and rubble.”

Luke laughed. “They have a sort of triple glaze,” he observed, “and as
long as they follow the instructions it never wears off, or that’s what
they taught me when I was a nipper. Had they got the child with them?”

“No. I saw him later.”

There was a shadow in his tone which made Luke glance up at him but
Cornish went on without elaborating. “The story they told me was so damn
silly I knew it must be true,” he said. “It struck a dreadful bell
inside me, like first hearing the facts of life when you’re a kid.
Incredible and ridiculous but inescapably, horribly true. There was a
woman who was slightly ‘sub,’ they said. They didn’t call her that but
they made it perfectly clear. She had been a casual, part-time ward-maid
at St. Saviour’s Ebbfield at the outbreak of war. The whole hospital had
been in a panic getting ready to be cleared for the expected blitz
casualties and she was frightened by all the talk. She heard that
mothers of newly born babies had been issued with pink tickets, which
entitled them to a seat on a bus to take them to complete safety as soon
as the warning came. Because she was terrified she stole the suitcase of
a patient who had died in childbirth, went down to the crêche part of
the hospital or whatever they call it, presented the other woman’s
credentials and got the baby. Then she went off to join the bus. That
was on the Sunday morning, September 3rd.”

Luke sat back in his chair. “Blow me down!” he said inelegantly.

Cornish met his eyes. “I know the type of woman, don’t you?”

“God yes! A right nit! We breed ’em in the cities. Too little grub, too
little air, too much of everything else including noise. The hospital
must have accepted her story that she was the next of kin and been
pretty relieved to see her if they were clearing the wards for
casualties. So she went on the bus with the child and the suitcase?”

“No. Not the suitcase. The little attaché-case I saw had been inside a
larger affair containing clothes, I understood. She found this too heavy
to carry as well as the child so she left it, if you please, with the
porter of the hospital and asked him to have it sent to her own address,
which was some digs in Bethnal Green. Are you with me?”

“Utterly.” Luke had given up writing and was in the story himself, on
his own ground. “It’s extraordinary how they never vary, that particular
type,” he observed. “Do you know their behaviour is more predictable
than a normal person’s? They simply move straight on, taking the easiest
way every time. That is why they appear to get away with so much. Paths
open up before them as they trickle along like water on the ground. The
landlady kept the suitcase quite safely, I suppose?”

“She did,” Cornish said. “That’s another amazing part of the story, to
my mind. She put it in a cupboard and thought no more about it until
five years later when she happened to see the girl again in a bus queue.
She’d been in London all the time. The house had stood up to all the
raids. Dozens of people had passed through the building. Every sort of
commodity was short but still there the bag was, unopened under a pile
of junk, exactly as it had been placed when the porter sent it round out
of the kindness of his heart. The Nuns of the Good Shepherd reproached
me for finding it extraordinary. It was _willed_ that the papers should
survive, they said.”

Luke was thinking, his brows raised and the long furrows deep in his
forehead.

“This evacuees’ bus,” he began cautiously, “where did it go? Suffolk?”
The Councillor interrupted him. “Oh, my dear good chap,” he said, “don’t
think that I haven’t been wondering about _that_ possibility. Ever since
that woman Flavia Aicheson—a type I hate on principle—told me the
story of Timothy this morning I’ve been trying to prevent myself
regarding it as a revelation.”

“Why?” Luke spoke in astonishment. “Why prevent yourself? It could so
easily be the other half of your story. It’s worth exploring, surely?”

“No!” The exclamation was vehement, and at the sound of the tone Luke’s
experienced ear pricked up and his eyes became wary once more as he
recognised the point at which their views were due to separate.

“One could make it fit!” the Councillor said. “One could want it to fit
so much that one could deceive oneself and everybody else. Anyone would
rather have a splendid, intelligent, decent, good-looking, honest boy
than—well, than what I have.”

The man was lashing himself with a bitterness Luke could just understand
but which he was far too old a hand to believe he could cure. “I haven’t
told you about Barry yet,” Cornish went on. “It’s the thing I came to
tell you and I still haven’t brought myself to do it. He’s abnormal,
Superintendent. It was apparent when he was a child. That was why I felt
I couldn’t ask Marion to take him into our home and why I left him with
the nuns.”

Luke was very serious. The pattern was unfolding before his
knowledgeable gaze like the symptoms of a familiar illness before a
physician.

“Is he what they call a Mongol, sir?” he murmured, his gaze on his
notes.

“Not quite. But he’s not right. Yet he’s not a fool. I wish he were. In
some ways he’s damnably intelligent. Horribly so.”

Luke sat rubbing his chin. All his training and experience shied at the
pitfall which he saw opening before him, and yet his human judgment told
him it did not exist and that the man, however misguided, was at least
honest.

“Sons tend to take after their mothers,” he began slyly.

“The ward-maid? Agnes Leach? Of course I’ve thought of that.” Cornish
dismissed the inference with a gesture. “The nuns thought of it. They
suspected me and insisted that they brought the woman while they watched
us to see if there was recognition there. I could have been lying. All
the story of my first wife could have been a fiction. I admit that.”

“No, no sir,” Luke was laughing softly. “Come. That isn’t what _I_ was
saying at all. There’s an old English word which isn’t often used
nowadays but it’s still useful on occasions, and that’s ‘changeling.’
Mothers have been known to do that before now.”

“No.” Cornish shook his head with a martyr’s obstinacy. “I’ve thought of
that. With longing. It would be a nice, easy, soft way out, wouldn’t it?
But life isn’t like that or I haven’t found it so.”

Luke leant back. He knew he was going to waste his time but couldn’t
help having a shot.

“My official life hasn’t exactly been what you might call sheltered,” he
said, “but I’ve never found it anywhere near as consistent as the cynics
do. ‘Surprise, surprise!’ That’s the message of life in my opinion. Look
here, sir, what makes you think that your first wife and you would have
produced the sort of child you describe to me? No. Don’t answer yet. But
then tell me what sort of kid you _would_ expect this subnormal Agnes
Leach to mother?”

The Councillor shook his head. “You mean very well, Superintendent,” he
said. “I should like to believe you, but aren’t you overlooking
something? What sort of chance has a child whose mother, my first wife,
came from the most dreadful of slums—and believe me, there’s nothing in
England today to match Turk Street when I was a boy—and was then,
almost on the day after he was born, thrown to a half-wit hysterical
girl who dragged him through the countryside in terror? Wouldn’t that
account for him, whatever he’s become?”

“No sir.” Luke spoke briskly. “Not if he’s what you describe.”

“But don’t you think so?” There was a masculine naïveté in the man’s
face and all the passionate ignorance of the unscientific mind on a
deeply emotional subject.

“No sir.” Luke was a father too but also a practical man. “As long as he
was properly fed—and he must have been to survive—not dropped on his
head, and kept reasonably warm, it wouldn’t hurt him at all.”

“I think you are wrong.”

Cornish spoke simply and his weakness was revealed like a man uncovering
a wound. “It was my fault. I ought to have known the child was coming
and I ought to have been there to take over when my wife died. It was a
duty I failed in. The R.A.F. was reasonable in such matters. Don’t you
agree?”

“No sir.” Luke was wooden.

Cornish smiled at him and his mouth twisted.

“You think I’m clinging to a cross,” he said.

Luke’s sudden grin was disarming.

“Well, if you set it up yourself it’s nothing much to cling to, sir, or
that’s what the Holy Sisters taught me, but I take it we’re not having
that kind of discussion. What exactly are you trying to tell me about
this boy of yours, Mr. Cornish? You’re thinking of the fire and the
flat-wrecking, aren’t you?”

Cornish looked up gravely and sighed.

“I don’t know anything, mind you. But as soon as I realised that the
probable reason for the attack on the flat was an attempt to frighten a
private detective off an enquiry into the history of a baby evacuated
from Turk Street on the first day of the Second World War, I thought of
my son Barry. It’s the sort of interference which might make him very
excited. Agnes Leach keeps in touch with Ebbfield gossip. He would hear
about it from her.”

Luke’s glance grew bleaker.

“Who did you think had employed the detective?”

“I knew. The police told me. Alison Kinnit. I associated her with Miss
Aicheson and I thought she had done it in an attempt to find out
something to discredit me.”

“Really?” Luke sounded amazed and a touch of colour appeared in the
Councillor’s thin cheeks.

“Now I’ve met her socially I see that’s unlikely,” he admitted. “But
you’ve no idea what she’s like in committee: she gives you the
impression she’d fight with no holds barred.”

Luke’s smile escaped despite himself, but he made no comment.

“When this boy Barry gets excited, is he liable to do dangerous and even
criminal things, sir?” he enquired.

Cornish nodded. It was an admission which he had prepared himself to
make but he still found it difficult. “All his life he has been
frighteningly awkward. The Nuns of the Good Shepherd passed him on to
the Sisters of St. Vincent de Paul who specialise in caring for that
sort of case. He became too much for them and he went to some Brothers
who wouldn’t keep him at all.”

Luke began to understand very clearly. “Has he got a record?”

“Yes.”

“Oh well,” the Superintendent made it sound a relief, “don’t distress
yourself, sir. I’ll look him up. We probably know more about him than
you do. Does he live alone in the normal way?”

“No. I should have felt more guilty still about him if he had, but this
Mrs. Leach . . .”

“The ward-maid?”

“The ward-maid, Agnes Leach, has been quite touchingly faithful to him.
Through all his vicissitudes she has always been about. Actually I pay
his allowance to her, now, so that he keeps it for at least a day or
so.”

“And yet you really believe . . .?” Luke bit back the rest of the
sentence. “She’s good to him, anyway,” he said instead and made a note.

The Councillor had risen and now stood looking at him with a stern
dignity which was yet homely enough not to appear absurd.

“You know what you’re forgetting, Luke,” he said, using the name as if
they were friends for the first time. “You’re overlooking the facts,
man. The boy _is_ my son. He’s got written proof. He’s got his papers.”

The Superintendent was taken aback. It was an aspect of the situation, a
purely legal one, which had indeed escaped him entirely in the emotional
problem.

“Who is to judge the age of a youngster?” Cornish asked. “Is a
squinting, backward baby four years or three? Or a gangling teen-ager
twenty or nineteen?” He held out his hand. “Well, there you are,” he
said. “I shall do what I can for him as I always have. You must be
prepared for that, but these dreadful acts of destruction must be
stopped: I see that. Look up your files and I’m afraid you’ll find him,
under ‘Cornish’ alias ‘Leach.’ He always uses his own name when he’s in
trouble. He has his papers, you see?”

As soon as Luke got back to his own room he told his clerk to find Mr.
Campion. “Wherever he is,” he said, “and get him on the line. Meanwhile
I want details of a youngster called Barry Cornish. There’ll be a
juvenile record if nothing else.”

Twenty minutes later he was talking over the telephone to his old
friend.

“Campion, I want to see you right away. Quicker than soon. It’s quite a
story and quite a development. I think we’ve got our delinquent. He has
a record like a horror-comic strip. Campion?”

“Wait a minute.” Mr. Campion’s light voice, which still had its
characteristic streak of vagueness, came gently to him over the wires.
“I’m at the Well House. The Kinnits’ home you know. There’s a bit of a
flap on. The nurse I told you about, Mrs. Broome, has just come in with
the story that she has again met the woman who brought Timothy to
Angevin with the other evacuees all those years ago. What? Oh yes. She
says she knew her at once. She was in the cemetery snooping round the
governess’s grave.”




                                   14
                            Kitchen Business


“Come, Miss Julia. You sit in the old basket chair while Mr. Tim and I
get supper ready. Shall I make you a little fire in the hobgrate and you
can pretend you’re Cinderella?”

Mrs. Broome’s ever-young voice tinkled gaily in the low-ceilinged cavern
which was the kitchen of the Well House. As a sample of conversation in
the world of today it had to be heard to be believed, and Tim and Julia
exchanged secret glances. Julia was still slightly emotional and her
eyes were wet as she laughed and turned to look at the carefully
restored chimneypiece hung about with iron spoons and skillets.

“You’re wonderful, Nanny Broome,” she said. “I don’t think that thing is
meant to light though, do you? Eustace would be horrified.”

“Very likely, but he’d get over it. If we put up with all his antique
bits and bobs he must give way to us sometimes.”

Mrs. Broome was making noises rather than talking and her glance was
running over the details of the fireplace as she weighed up the
difficulties of the project.

“I do like a flare,” she said. “And there are some wine boxes through
there we could break up, but it’s warm enough with all these pipes. I
just want to make you feel at home, miss. After all, as I said to Mr.
Tim when you rang up so upset, you’ve been such a good little girl over
all this engagement business we ought to make a fuss of you or he’ll
lose you.”

“Nan! That will do!” Timothy was embarrassed and, as usual, Mrs. Broome
bridled dangerously at any reproach from him.

“You still show you’ve been fighting, especially when you colour up,
young man,” she said spitefully. “Come along: there are four places to
be laid on the kitchen table. We’ll give Mrs. Telpher something down
here with us, shall we? Poor thing, she won’t want to eat alone even if
she is so rich! It was a great shock to her losing that little Miss
Saxon and she was worried enough before, what with the kiddiewiddie and
being so far from home.”

Julia stirred in the creaking chair. She was laughing but yet grateful
for the mothering, which was comforting, however absurd.

“I hope you’re right that Miss Alison won’t mind me coming to stay,” she
said. “I was dreading the evening at home alone but it seems rather an
imposition to move in on you when I live reasonably near.”

“Oh, rubbish! Miss Alison always lets me settle little things like that
when I’m here. If Mr. Tim wanted to bring a school friend home for a
match or the Boat Race he only had to ask me. I do the extra work, you
see!”

Mrs. Broome was trotting round the kitchen with her little steps
swinging her seat and conveying such ecstatic happiness as could alone
excuse her. “One of these days you’ll be the mistress and we shall be
the poor old things all very glad that you’ve got something to be
grateful to us for.”

Tim put his arm round her and lifted her gently off the floor. “Shut
up!” he said.

Mrs. Broome squeaked with delight like a musical-comedy soubrette.
“Giving away secrets, am I?” she enquired contentedly. “I’m always doing
that. Never mind me. We must get a tray for the gentlemen. I shall give
them theirs in the study. Then they won’t come and bother us down here.”

Tim stood for a moment absently caressing his ear lobe.

“Poor Campion,” he said. “Eustace has frozen on to him as if he was the
only spar in an angry sea. I’ve got a terrific admiration for your
father, darling. This deft introduction of an expert instead of bungling
about in it himself is masterly.”

The girl looked up quickly. “I like Mr. Campion though, don’t you?”

“Immensely. I don’t know why. He’s on our side anyway, perhaps it’s
that. I’m afraid he’s having a depressing day. Alison gave him some
dreadful lunch and now he’s going to be asked to share Eustace’s boiled
milk and bickies.”

“No, I shall make him a nice little omelette and he’ll eat it with a
glass of wine and a roll and butter and like it.” Mrs. Broome was beside
herself with happy home-making. “I shall put a pretty tray cloth on and
find a bit of cheese and he’ll enjoy it. They’re very busy talking about
something _I_ was able to tell them, Miss Julia.” She was bursting with
her news and carefully avoided Timothy’s warning glance. “I happened to
go out today and I . . .”

“What about Alison and Aich?” Timothy interrupted her ruthlessly. “Where
are they feeding?”

“Oh, they’re going to the Art-Lovers Club.” Mrs. Broome was sidetracked.
“They’ve got to go to this recital in Wigmore Street you see, because
they know the gentleman who’s giving it. It’s a harpsichord he plays and
very rare, but afterwards they’re slipping over to the club to have a
hot sandwich and they’ll be back at once after that, because of course
they’re as interested in the goings-on here as anyone is. You finish
this table, Mr. Tim, and I’ll slip up to the dining room pantry and fix
the tray and find the wine.” She bustled out of the room but put her
head back inside the door immediately afterwards.

“Make him tell you about what I found in the cemetery, miss,” she said
and fled before she saw his reaction.

For once she had misjudged the situation, however, for the instant they
were alone they were in each other’s arms, too wearily frustrated to
care about any mystery save one. Julia lay in the creaking basket chair
holding her beloved back from her by his ears.

“Oh God, this is awful,” she said. “It’s like dabbing a burn with cold
water, brief peace and then twice as much pain. Look darling, before she
comes back, I’ve got to tell you. I had a sort of extraordinary
experience down in Ebbfield at the cobbler’s shop.”

“Oh, be quiet.” He pushed his mouth over hers and with his weight upon
her edged her back further into the hard flock cushions sewn into the
groaning basket work. The discomfort was a delight to her and the very
absurdity of the noise of the chair seemed to add to the pleasure of the
sacrifice, but she wriggled away from him at last and struggled on with
her story.

“I heard someone say _Basil_ Kinnit. Do you think . . .?”

“Basil Kinnit? There’s no such person.” He was momentarily interested.

“I know. That’s what I thought. But it couldn’t be a coincidence because
it’s an unusual name and anyway Basil’s in it, isn’t he?”

“Basil Toberman?”

“Of course.” They were whispering without knowing why. Two conspirators,
their heads together, their breath mingling. “He started it all, didn’t
he? He hates you—he hates us both.”

He was about to protest but changed his mind and began to kiss her
again, pressing his forehead hard into her chest.

“It’s ridiculous,” he said, suddenly, his head bobbing up like a child
out of a cot. “We want so little, only a bit of peace and solitude, only
for a tiny while . . . It’s like dying: you only need your narrow bit of
earth. Hush—”

They both paused, listening. Someone was coming down the flight of
wooden stairs which led from the ground floor to the half-basement in
which the kitchen was built at the end of the entrance yard.

Timothy got up and Mrs. Telpher came in quietly and nodded to them. She
was aware that she was intruding and regretted it in a mild Kinnit-like
way.

“Mrs. Broome tells me we are to have a meal down here,” she remarked,
looking about her with the impersonal interest which was so very
characteristic of the whole family. “She is still very excited about her
encounter. It’s quite an extraordinary chance that she should have found
the woman there, of all places. Oh—haven’t you told Julia about it yet,
Timothy?”

The dark colour came slowly into the boy’s face.

“Julia’s only just arrived,” he said.

“Oh, I see.” She looked from one to the other with the calmly
inquisitive stare which was reminiscent of Alison, and then laughed with
a touch of hardness which was not Alison at all. “I think I should tell
her if I were you,” she said. “It’s rather her affair.”

There it was again, the hint of superiority, unaware and
unself-conscious, which denigrated the other person’s importance in an
offhand, unintentional way. Although he had been familiar with the trick
all his life, Timothy could still be flustered by it.

He swung round and addressed the girl who was still sitting in the
chair.

“Nan went over to Harold Dene Cemetery to take a wreath which arrived
too late for Miss Saxon’s funeral,” he said. “While she was there she
ran into a woman whom she fancied she recognised, and afterwards she
decided it was the person who brought me down to Angevin when I was a
baby. Naturally everybody is rather excited because I suppose there’s a
very good chance that she is my mother.” He hesitated. “Nan won’t have
it, because she didn’t take to her. She sounds something of a problem
Mum!”

Julia received the full message and made no false move.

“That could be very useful and interesting,” she said slowly. “I suppose
people do recognise each other after twenty years?”

Mrs. Telpher laughed gently. “One can see how young you are!” she said.
“Did the other woman recognise Mrs. Broome? I shouldn’t think she’d
changed since the day she was born.”

Timothy looked startled. “No one seems to have thought of that. I’ll ask
Nan. She must know.”

Mrs. Telpher sat down at the partly laid table where she managed to look
remarkably elegant despite a background of white kitchen fittings.

“She may have made it all up,” she said placidly. “Not intentionally you
know, Timothy. But in a bedtime story fashion. Here she comes. I should
like to hear it from her.”

“Everybody wants to hear it from me.” Nanny Broome caught the tail end
of the sentence and responded happily as she came softly in, her quick
light steps pattering oh the stones. “I should think that Mr. Albert
Campion—who isn’t nearly so gormless as he looks, let me tell you—took
me through it a dozen times. Where exactly was the grave? Where was I?
Where was the water tap? Where was the keeper?”

“The _keeper_?” Julia demanded.

“Well, the man in the peaked cap who was wandering about.” Mrs. Broome
was on the defensive. “It’s a very modern place, you know. The same idea
as the zoo. Graves not quite graves and cages not quite cages but all
lovely paths and gardens. Anyway I spoke to him and asked him the way
because he looked as if he ought to know, and he did. There it was,
covered with all our flowers. Mr. Eustace’s cushion of roses looked
lovely. Naturally I was surprised to see a lady kneeling there because
she wasn’t one of us.”

“A lady kneeling?” Mrs. Telpher’s utter astonishment splashed through
the chatter like a shower of cold water.

“Well, a person,” said Mrs. Broome, reddening. “She was stooping if she
wasn’t kneeling.”

Mrs. Telpher’s shrewd eyes began to laugh and Nanny Broome’s blush
became sulky. “I said ‘kneeling’ because it was a grave,” she explained
unnecessarily. “I went up softly and, not liking to disturb her in case
she was someone we knew, I put the new wreath up against a headstone
behind her and went off to get some water. I thought there must be a tap
somewhere and I could see the poor tired flowers could do with a nice
fresh sprinkle.”

“Had she seen you?” Timothy enquired.

“I don’t think so. Not then. But when I came back with a little jampot
of water—I found one hidden behind the post the tap was on—she was
sitting back on her heels looking at the label on the wreath I’d just
brought.”

“You mean the card.” Julia spoke absently.

“No I don’t. I mean the label.” Nursery authority was very marked and a
certain feline streak, directed at Mrs. Telpher, appeared in the
narrative. “I didn’t take the wreath out of its wrappings to carry it
there, particularly since I was going by bus: so the label was still on
it. It was sent ‘Care of Kinnit’ to our address here and there was the
name and address of the people who had sent it, too—somewhere in
Africa. Well, this lady—I always call people that because it’s more
polite—was squatting there reading it. I thought ‘There’s cheek if you
like!’ so I said, ‘Excuse me, please’ and took it away.”

“Is that when you recognised her?” There was still faint amusement in
Mrs. Telpher’s face.

“No. I shouldn’t have known her from Adam. I kept my eyes down you see.
I was annoyed with her and I intended to show it.” Nanny Broome conveyed
the scene with complete veracity. One could see her, cross and prissy,
waggling her bottom, taking her tiny steps, and keeping her eyes
downcast so that the lashes were black on her red cheeks.

“I unpacked the wreath and folded the cellophane very carefully for one
doesn’t want to make litter,” she said virtuously. “And I set it up in
the best place and I said to it, ‘Now you lie there and look nice.’”

“You actually spoke aloud?” It was Mrs. Telpher again. She seemed
fascinated.

“Yes, I did. I always talk aloud to things. It helps me to concentrate.
Why, there’s no harm in it, is there, madam?”

She was within an ace of impudence, overplaying her part dangerously.
Tim intervened hastily.

“What else did you say?” he enquired. “Did you speak to the label? Did
you, Nan?”

“Why should I?” She flushed so brightly that he was answered.

“Because I know you,” he said. “What did you say?”

“I only spoke to it as I put it with the rest of the rubbish to go into
the litter bin. I said, ‘Well, I don’t know, but everyone seems
interested in _you_. First Mr. Basil and then a perfect stranger.’
Afterwards I did look at her and I was surprised, because I thought ‘My
goodness! I have seen you before!’ But I couldn’t think where, until I
was nearly home.”

“How did she take your delicate criticism?”

“Don’t you laugh at me, young man. I couldn’t tell you. I didn’t stop to
talk. I came away. She wasn’t the kind of person to get acquainted with.
The years had altered her. She was a silly girl in those days—she had
adenoids I shouldn’t wonder—but she wasn’t downright _awful_ like she
is now.”

“I’ve lost the thread of all this,” Mrs. Telpher intervened with sudden
irritation. “What did you mean when you said Mr. Toberman was interested
in the label on the wreath?”

“Well, he was. He copied it down in his notebook, didn’t he? I thought
you saw him. You were at the top of the stairs.”

“Really? Was this yesterday evening when it arrived?” She seemed amazed.
“What an extraordinary thing for him to do! I’m afraid I find the whole
story amazing. Are you sure you recognised this woman by poor Miss
Saxon’s grave?”

“Perfectly. Her face came back to me. I told you. I kept thinking about
her and then when I was nearly here, ‘My goodness!’ I said. That’s who
it was!’”

“Did she know you?”

Nanny Broome seemed to find the question as surprising as everyone else
had done. She stood considering and finally made a virtue of necessity,
as usual.

“I was always taught it was very wrong to go about wondering what effect
one is making on the other person all the time, so I never do. If she
did know me she didn’t say so, but she did have a silly sly smile on her
face, now you come to mention it. It would be funny if she didn’t
recognise me, wouldn’t it? I haven’t got any older at all, everybody
says that.” She turned away. “Now I must get on with your meal and
hurry. I’m to see the police, Mr. Tim. First you and now me.”

She tossed the small grenade lightly into the conversation and busied
herself at the sink. “Mr. Campion told me,” she said over her shoulder.
“He and Mr. Eustace were full of it when I took the tray up from the
pantry. As soon as I’ve seen to you all down here I’m to slip into a
dark coat and go with Mr. Campion to see somebody called Superintendent
Luke.”

“Officially?” Julia got the question in before Timothy could speak. Mrs.
Broome turned to look at her reproachfully.

“Not quite,” she admitted regretfully. “I’m not going to headquarters
and I said I’d rather not go to a public house, so I shall meet him
out.”

“Why doesn’t the Superintendent come here?” Tim, fresh from his own
experience, was apprehensive.

“He doesn’t want to.” Mrs. Broome still talked with her back to him. “I
asked Mr. Campion that and he explained that it’s a question of
etiquette. So of course I understood at once.”

She bustled out through a door at the back of the room and Timothy
looked at Julia, his eyebrows raised.

“What’s your chum playing at, do you know?”

“I don’t.” She was wary. “Superintendent Luke is all right only very
high-powered. I’m surprised though. I didn’t think he’d interfere
unless—”

“Unless what?”

“Unless the Councillor talked to him. He conveyed that he might, but I
didn’t think he’d do it so soon.”

“The Councillor?” Tim spoke in astonishment but did not continue since
Mrs. Telpher was watching them with polite interest. Finally, as the
silence grew longer she spoke herself.

“Did you want to talk to him or were you just determined to get him out
of the house before he drove Eustace out of his mind? I never saw a man
so astounded in my life as when you carried him off like that.”

Julia regarded her gravely.

“I liked him,” she said. “He knows a great deal about Ebbfield. Did you
like him, Timothy?”

“I did rather.” He seemed surprised by the admission. “He’s either very
human or else he’s just a type I happen to know and understand. He
annoyed me but I never felt I didn’t know what he meant, which is odd
because I’m rather slow on the uptake with strangers.”

Julia sat hesitating, her eyes dark with indecision. “I was wondering,”
she began at last and was saved, or perhaps merely interrupted by a
shout from Mrs. Broome somewhere in back of the building.

“What’s happened here? Look at this!”

Both young people hurried out to her, entering first a whitewashed
passage of a type which still exists in old London houses, and then on
to a square room which must once have been an outhouse before the city
had closed not merely round but over it. It was lit by a single bulb
hanging from a cracked ceiling and still possessed a flagged floor.
Nanny Broome was looking up at the outer wall. Just under the ceiling
there were three lunette windows, heavily barred and blacked out in the
normal way by centuries of grime. Their bases were on a level with the
pavement outside, a narrow way which was several feet lower than the
road behind the house.

At the moment, however, a draught of cold, soot-laden air was flowing in
freely through the centre window.

“See that?” Mrs. Broome demanded. “The glass has come clean out. It’s
simply gone, unless someone has cut it. Keep away from that Mr. Tim, do,
or you’ll get yourself filthy.”

Tim had swung himself up by two of the bars and now dropped back
obediently, dusting his hands.

“There’s no sign of it and the wire netting has gone too,” he said.
“They do sweep along there, though. It serves as a fire escape from the
basement of the factory beyond the warehouse next door and has to be
kept clear. I expect the netting rotted and the glass fell out and broke
and both were shovelled up by the scavengers.”

“In that case they must work funny hours,” Mrs. Broome said, tartly. “It
was perfectly all right at lunch time. I’m in and out here in the
mornings but this evening I felt the fresh draught as soon as I set foot
outside the kitchen door.”

“What an extraordinary place.” Mrs. Telpher came in cautiously, as if
she were entering a cave, and Mrs. Broome frowned.

“It’s antique, madam,” she said sharply. “This is where the famous well
was. It’s under the floor where that ring is, full of medicine. That’s
why we can’t do anything useful with the room, like making a laundry of
it. Someone has been up to mischief with our window, trying to get in, I
suppose.”

“Nonsense, Nan,” Timothy spoke soothingly. “No one could get through
those bars, they can’t be six inches apart.”

“A rat could,” said Mrs. Broome. “Come along out of here at once and
we’ll shut the door.”

Julia was uneasy. “Oughtn’t we to report it to the police?”

“I’ll mention it,” Mrs. Broome said grandly. “But as Mr. Tim says, if
those bars are no protection a bit of dirty glass certainly wouldn’t be.
If anyone was hoping to get in there they’ve been put off. Now all sit
round the table please because I mustn’t keep the gentlemen waiting.”

On the whole it was a relief when at last, some little time later, they
persuaded her to leave them. She tripped lightly up the stairs, her long
purple coat wrapped round her and her eyes as bright as if she were
going to an assignation. Tim sighed when at last they heard the front
door slam.

“Now we can start again,” he said. “Geraldine, how about another tin of
lovely pink soup?”

“Are you still eating? Splendid! We did hope we’d find you still at it.”
Miss Aicheson appearing suddenly in the doorway took them by surprise.
She was tired but still game and was fussing a little in an
old-gentlemanly way.

“The club was shut,” she said. “I’d been told, too. Alison was quite
right. It had slipped my memory completely. So home we came only to find
Mrs. Broome on the doorstep being carried off by that pleasant Mr.
Campion.” Her smile was disarming. “I feel certain I can open a tin. You
must just tell me what to do, Tim. Alison won’t mind as long as we steer
clear of onions or red pepper.”

Both young people rose to the occasion. Julia cleared a place and Tim
gave up his seat.

“Don’t worry, Aich,” Timothy said. “How was the concert?”

“Oh, very good indeed. I’m so glad we went to make two more. Poor Henry
Ambush hasn’t many friends and he’s so talented. It’s a very exacting
instrument, the harpischord—on the ear, I mean.”

“Is it?” said Mrs. Telpher mechanically. She had relapsed into her
unforthcoming mood and sat relaxed and withdrawn, as if she were out of
the circle altogether.

“So this is where you all are!” Alison came flitting in with Eustace
behind her. The Kinnit resemblance both between brother and sister and
Geraldine Telpher herself had never appeared more marked. They were all
mature people, past the age when the family stamp appears unmistakably
in the bone structure, and they looked to Julia like three little moulds
off the same line, only differing superficially where some celestial
paintbrush had been at work.

“Don’t worry about us.” Alison sat down in Julia’s place beside Miss
Aicheson and smiled at everybody. “Eustace has had his sandwiches and I
hardly want anything at all. What have you been eating? Soup and cheese?
How very nice. What are you doing down there, Eustace?”

“Looking at this fireplace.” He spoke from behind Mrs. Telpher. “I come
down here so seldom it always takes me by surprise. It’s perfect and
just as we uncovered it. Every brick quite perfect. A simple ellipse.
It’s pure fourteenth century, much older than the house, and must have
had a big square chimney, long since gone, of course.” He rose, dusting
his knees. “One day Nanny Broome, or some other silly woman, will try to
light a fire in it and smoke everybody out. But it’s most interesting;
this must have been the original ground level, eight feet or more below
the street of today. The same period as the Well in fact. Have they
shown you that, Geraldine?”

“I saw the slab over it just now. One of the windows has been broken in
there. Julia thought it should be reported to the police.”

“What? A window? Really? Tim, you didn’t tell me this? I ought to have
been informed at once!” Eustace was already on his way to inspect the
trouble, Timothy behind him.

“My dear boy,” his voice came floating back to them, “we mustn’t take
any unnecessary risks. These are evil times. There are a lot of
unprincipled people about and we have treasures here.”

Alison noticed Mrs. Telpher’s expression of astonishment and hastened to
explain.

“Eustace is thinking of irreplaceable antiques,” she murmured. “We don’t
keep money or jewels in the house. That’s why we wrote to warn you to
put yours in a safe deposit. We feel it’s wrong to tempt people. Any
burglar who came here would have to know exactly what he was after or
he’d be very disappointed.”

“I see.” Geraldine Telpher inclined her head gravely and everyone was
left a little irritated, as if she had disparaged the contents of the
house.

“I believe you’re right.” Eustace returned to the room wiping his hands
on his handkerchief and still talking to Timothy who was behind him.
“The bars are a complete protection but we’ll report it in the morning
and it must be repaired at once. I can’t think it has been done
deliberately but—” An expression of dismay spread over his gentle face
as a tremendous rattle and thump directly outside the door leading up
into the house shook the whole basement.

In the silence which followed somebody outside used a familiar but ugly
four-letter word.

Timothy pulled the door open and put his head out.

“Oh, it’s you,” he said. “What’s happened?” There was a pause and he
glanced back into the room, trying not to appear amused. “It’s Basil.
He’s slipped down the stairs. Get up, you ass. Are you all right?”

“Ruddy Kinnits!” The voice which was unquestionably drunken sounded
tearful. “This is just the welcome I should expect. I’ve already been
called Basil Kinnit once tonight—just outside this inhospitable house.
I’ve been asked by a perfect stranger ‘Are you Basil Kinnit?’ What’s the
answer? That is the question. The answer is No.”

“All right.” Timothy sounded harassed. “Don’t worry about it, old boy,
just get up.”

“But I do worry.” The tears were more evident. “I hate the ruddy Kinnits
and all their damned governesses and let me tell you, Wonder Boy, I’m in
a position to tell them something they don’t all know.”

“So you shall, chum, so you shall.” Timothy was speaking whilst
expending considerable exertion. “Just get up and you shall tell us all
anything you like.”




                                   15
                            The Beanspiller


“Public house nothing! This is a hotel.”

Charlie Luke had never appeared a finer animal in harder condition. His
suit might have been buttoned tightly over wood, and he perched on the
plush-seated chair in the deserted upstairs dining room of the Eagle
Tavern in Scribe Street, E.C.3., glowing at Mrs. Broome as if she were a
plate of cornflakes and he a greedy child on a poster advertising them.
Mr. Campion, who was between them, was amused despite his anxiety.

“At lunch time this room is crowded with solid business men but in the
evening they’ve all caught their trains home and it is quiet and
comfortable for us to have a chat in, see?” the Superintendent was
explaining. “You’re being given Royal treatment. I’ve had them open it
up and turn on the lights for us.”

“Not many.” Nanny Broome, smug in her purple coat, glanced up at the
spray of bronze wall-lights above the table. They shed a somewhat
ghostly glow over the rest of the thickly carpeted room. “I know it’s
been used at lunch time because I can smell spirits and cigars. Still,
if Mr. Campion says it’s all right I don’t mind staying.”

“That’s handsome of you, missus.” Luke was a trifle dashed and his eyes
were inquisitive. “I’ve invited you to come along because I want to ask
you one or two very simple questions. You may not be able to tell me
anything but there is a chance you could help with an enquiry which is
nothing whatever to do with anyone you know.”

“I understand.”

“Do you?” He seemed surprised. “That’s good. I could take you down to
the police station and the detectives there could get you to make long,
long statements, but I don’t want to put you to all that trouble.”

“Why?” She appeared genuinely curious and he caught his breath and let
it out in a short explosive laugh.

“Because you’re needed at home to do the washing up,” he said and gave
Mr. Campion a sidelong glance. “Would you like a cake with that coffee,
Mrs. Broome? No? I’ll have a ham sandwich,” he added to the resident
manageress who was serving them herself. “The others will too. Some of
those very expensive ones.”

“That’s all right, Mr. Luke, don’t worry.” The woman, who was tired and
motherly for all her spiked heels and diamond ring, set down the coffee
tray and waddled off into the darkness.

The Superintendent returned to his guest.

“Now I want you to take your time over this so we’ll start with
something which hasn’t very much to do with it,” he began mendaciously.
“Mr. Campion here was telling me that you believe you saw the woman who
brought Mr. Timothy Kinnit down to the country when he was a baby, and
that to the best of your belief she was in Harold Dene Cemetery this
afternoon. Is that right?”

Mrs. Broome smiled at him and presently threw back her head and laughed
like a girl.

“I’m not as green as I’m cabbage-looking,” she said. “You ask me
straight questions and I’ll give you straight answers. You want to know
if Mr. Tim’s Mummy has turned up out of the blue, don’t you?”

Luke blinked, exaggerating the reaction and leaning back in his chair.

“I didn’t say anything of the sort.”

“No, I know you didn’t, but that’s what you were thinking.”

“Was I? You’re a mind reader, I suppose?”

“No, I don’t pretend to be that.” She was cocky and deprecating at the
same time. “But I generally know what lies behind any question I’m
asked. Some people do, you know.”

The Superintendent sighed and the wrinkles on his forehead deepened as
his eyebrows rose.

“Yes,” he said. “Some people do—and damn dangerous they are, too! Well
then, suppose that is what I wanted to know? I’m not saying it was, mind
you.”

Mrs. Broome touched the sleeve of his coat where his wrist lay on the
table beside her.

“You’re wasting your time, anyhow. She wasn’t,” she said reassuringly.
“I told Mr. Toberman that, and Mr. Campion here was listening—as he
usually is, it seems. That girl was not the mother of Timothy or anybody
else when she came down to Angevin.”

Luke leaned over the table. Cosiness and man-to-woman approach glowed
from him.

“It’s very easy to make mistakes in a matter like this. I’ve been taken
in time after time. Motherhood is like any other natural thing: there
are hundreds of variations of condition.”

Mrs. Broome shook her head. She was sitting up very straight, her cheeks
pink.

“I don’t doubt that you’re a very clever man and that being in the
police you’ve had to get to know a lot of things that aren’t a
gentleman’s business, but you’ve never had a baby have you? Not
personally, I mean.”

Luke scratched his chin but before he could comment she continued.

“Well, I have. More than that, I had just come back from hospital after
losing my baby when this girl turned up with Timmy, who was quite
new—still on his stalk. That’s a thing no one can disguise. Naturally,
although I was run off my feet looking after all the other mummies, she
was my chief interest because the baby was so young, and I put her to
sleep in my little room where we shared the same bed, and all day I was
looking forward to talking to her about her confinement.”

“Oh.” A wave of comprehension passed over the Superintendent’s
expressive face. “She didn’t give the right answers?”

“She didn’t know anything at all!” Mrs. Broome’s contempt and
disappointment were as fresh as if she felt them still. “I spent all the
night trying to get some sense out of her and I soon found out she
wasn’t only a liar but a very ignorant young monkey. Do you know,
another woman on the bus had _lent her a bottle_ or he would have
starved by the time I was there to save him! A wicked, wicked girl!”

“She was pretending to be the mother?”

“Not to me, she wasn’t. She soon saw how ridiculous that was. She had
had to say she was his mother to account for the pink ticket. She had to
have a pink ticket to be allowed on the bus. No. That girl was simply
frightened of the bombs. They were her worry, silly little cat! Not a
thought for the poor baby. I’d have given her bomb!”

Luke was watching her with the whole of his body.

“After talking to you she ran away?” He could not help anticipating the
story.

Mrs. Broome raised mutinous eyes.

“Yes, she did. I knew I’d frightened her but I never expected that. The
next morning she vanished. I thought she was hiding so I didn’t say
anything but looked after the baby. I was so busy and so happy with him
that I kept putting off mentioning that she’d gone. Then, when Mr.
Eustace practically owned to him, naming him like that, I didn’t bother
any more. I made up my mind that she was a maid sent down to bring him
to me.” She paused and took a defiant breath. “If you don’t believe me I
can’t help it. But I’m not a liar.”

“No,” said Luke, grinning at her. “You’re not dull enough! I believe
you. What about the kid’s clothes? I don’t suppose they were anything to
write home about but didn’t you keep anything? A bootee or a bit of
embroidery or anything at all?”

She shook her head. “The only thing I kept that Timmy had when he came
to me was most unsuitable for a baby,” she said. “It was a cotton
headscarf tucked under his shawl. It was a lovely pale blue. Blue for a
boy. It had little jumping white lambs on it and writing made of
daisy-chains. ‘Happy and Gay’ it said. All over it. It was just my meat
and I’ve got it somewhere and I’ll show it to you, but it wasn’t
special. There were hundreds of scarves like it in Woolies that year.”

“If you’re certain of that, don’t bother.” He shook his head
regretfully. “What’s your observation like?” He had taken his worn black
wallet from his pocket and was looking for something amid the bursting
contents. “This is a curio in itself,” he said to Campion. “They
wouldn’t let me borrow the file of course, but the photographic section
got me these in fourteen minutes flat.” He produced two small
photographs of a woman, one full face, one profile, and handed them to
Mrs. Broome who wore the expectant expression of a player awaiting his
turn in a quiz game. A single glance, however, wiped everything but
dismay from her face.

“Oh, doesn’t she look awful!” she said aghast. “She’s not as bad as
that, not even now. What are these for? Her passport?”

“You could call it that,” Luke said drily. “Is it she?”

“Oh, yes, I can see it’s her. They’re not as bad as that.”

“Do you remember the name she gave you?”

“She didn’t give me any name. If she had I should have remembered it and
it would have saved a lot of trouble.”

“Wasn’t it on the pink ticket?”

“I had no time for tickets! You have no idea what it was like. We had
hundreds of mummies and kiddiewiddies in the house—hundreds! All
wanting—my goodness!—all sorts of things.”

“What did you call her?”

“Me?”

“Yes, when you were getting down to the intimate details. ‘Ducky’?”

“No, I should never have said that. I’m very particular how I talk.” She
was thinking, casting her mind back as he was persuading her to. “I’m
not sure, but I think I called her ‘Agnes.’ She must have told me that
was her name if I did. It’s not a favourite of mine.”

“All right, don’t worry. Have you ever heard of a Mrs. Leach?”

“No. Is that who she says she is?”

The Superintendent ignored the question. He was looking at some
scribbled notes on a sheet torn from a telephone pad.

“I understand,” he said at last, “that you told Mr. Campion here that
you didn’t have a chat with her in the cemetery. It was a chance meeting
and although you thought you knew her you didn’t place her until you
were on a bus coming home. Did any word pass between you at all?”

“None.” With the recollection of Mrs. Telpher’s reaction to her habit of
addressing inanimate objects fresh in her mind, Nanny Broome was
cautious, sticking carefully to the letter of the truth. “I might have
said ‘excuse me’ as I passed her to put the wreath on the grave, but
nothing more.”

He nodded acceptance. “You say she was kneeling?”

“I might have been wrong. She might have been just bending, looking at
the flowers.”

Luke scratched his clipped black curls. “What was she doing there at
all, do you know? Was she just ghouling about among the graves, or
pinching flowers, or what? I mean was this an absolutely chance meeting,
do you think, or was she interested in that one particular grave?”

“Oh, of course it was our grave she was looking at!” The idea of any
other explanation seemed to astound her. “I thought ‘Ah, there’s
somebody who’s heard the talk!’”

Mr. Campion raised a warning hand but he was too late. Luke had heard.

“What talk?” he demanded, looking from one to the other of them with the
same suspicious flicker.

“Miss Saxon fell in the kitchen just before she had her fatal heart
attack.” Mr. Campion made the explanation carefully. “She appears to
have been listening at a door and when Timothy Kinnit pulled it open
suddenly, she fell in. Basil Toberman has been making a point of the
incident. He’s inordinately jealous of the young man.”

“Oh the tale isn’t _true_,” said the irrepressible Mrs. Broome airily.
“I was there and I saw what happened so there’s no question about that.
Mr. Eustace hushed it up because she was a governess—not because of Mr.
Tim.”

“_Hushed it up?_”

“Played it down.” Mr. Campion spoke with more firmness than one might
have supposed possible in one normally so casual.

“All right,” Luke conceded but he was still interested. “Why is he cagey
about governesses?”

“Because they had one who did a murder.” Mrs. Broome was enjoying
herself. As soon as Luke noticed it he calmed considerably.

“A hundred and twenty years ago,” murmured Mr. Campion testily. “Miss
Thyrza Caleb and her Chair of Death.”

“Oh?” The Superintendent was delighted. “It’s the same Kinnit family, is
it? We used to have a book of famous trials in the house when I was a
kid, illustrated with dreadful old woodcuts. I remember Thyrza with her
white face and streaming hair. There was something funny about that
story. Wasn’t there a postscript?”

“I never heard it,” said Campion. “I missed the crime entirely. It was
new on me when Toberman told me the other day.”

“Oh, no. It’s famous in its way.” Luke was still searching his memory.
“She committed suicide, I think.” He shook his head as some of the
details remained obstinately shadowy and turned a broadly smiling face
to Mrs. Broome. “Well, anyway, you got it in and startled the poor
copper,” he said. “You’re old Beanspilling-Bertha herself, aren’t you?”

Nanny Broome was not amused. As usual when the joke was against her she
made every effort to get her own back.

“I’ve got nothing to hide,” she muttered, jerking up her chin. “Not like
some people.”

Luke’s interest was captured despite his better judgment. “Out with it,”
he commanded. “Who are you telling tales on now?”

“No one. I’ve got none to tell but Miss Saxon had. Painting her face,
dyeing her hair, listening at doors, and over sixty years old if she was
a day! What sort of governess was she?”

“Better than no one,” said Luke flatly. “You can’t catch me with that
sort of stuff.”

“But she had a secret. She was always just about to tell it to me. She’d
keep leading up to it and then being put off, or Mrs. Telpher would call
her.” Nanny Broome was labouring her points a little. There was a touch
of desperation in her bid for drama. “She told me herself, only the day
before she died: ‘I’m under a great strain,’ she said.”

Mr. Campion took it upon himself to see that no more harm was done.

“Miss Saxon was driving the car when the accident occurred that resulted
in the tragic condition of the child who has been brought over here to
hospital,” he said. “It has been unconscious for two years.”

“Oh Lord!” Luke’s sympathetic grimace was lost in Mrs. Broome’s amazed
reception of the news.

“Oh, so that was it! Well! No wonder she wanted to share a feeling of
guilt like that and why she seemed more upset about the poor
kiddiewiddie even than its own suffering mother.” She paused and added
brightly, “And why she dyed her hair.”

“Eh?” Luke’s eyes were sparkling. “Go on,” he said. “I dare you.”

“Because she knew she was too old to have been driving the car, of
course,” said Mrs. Broome, gathering her gloves and purse. “And now if
you don’t need me any longer, sir, I’ll be getting back. There’ll be
some clearing up to do and Miss Julia is staying the night, so I want to
pop a nice hot bottle in her bed. Just to comfort her. She’s very young
and no mummy.”

Luke got up. “Very well, be off,” he said. “Thank you for your help. I
don’t suppose I shall have to call on you again.”

“Oh, I’m very glad.” Disappointment was evident in every line of her
body and her lashes made half circles on her cheeks. “I shouldn’t like
to have to give evidence in Court.”

“God forbid that indeed!” said Luke ducking his chin in to his neck.
“Run along, I’ll send you a box of chocolates one day.”

She flashed a smile at him which was as gay and provocative as Seventeen
itself. “I don’t eat them,” she proclaimed triumphantly. “I’m slimming.”

The last they saw of her was her seat, wagging as happily as if it
carried a tail, as she trotted off into the shadows.

Luke laughed softly. “It’s a crying shame one could never risk her in
the witness box,” he observed. “She’s got all the answers. It must have
been tremendous fun being brought up by a woman like that. You’d know
all the important things about the whole sex before you were seven.”

Mr. Campion put out his hand for the photographs and studied them
curiously. They showed a bedraggled sprite of a woman with a slack mouth
and huge vacant eyes, who yet managed to convey a hint of cunning. She
was unusually dishevelled, he suspected, which was what had so shocked
Mrs. Broome.

“What about Agnes Leach’s record?”

Luke shrugged. “She’s a type and she has the usual long silly history.
Shoplifting, soliciting, minor fraud. Our welfare people suffer from
her. They get her job after job and each time she reforms completely for
a couple of weeks until something else catches her attention
and—whoops! She’s flat on her kisser again.”

“I suppose Mrs. Broome did recognise these photographs?”

“I’d take my dying oath she did.” Luke spoke with the conviction of long
experience. “She recognised her in the cemetery and these confirmed it.”

Mr. Campion passed them back. “What was Agnes Leach doing there? Looking
for an address?”

“I should think so. ‘Looking at the flowers on the grave’ suggests
hunting among them for florists’ labels to me. Somehow or other—almost
certainly from Miss Tray at the cobbler’s shop—she heard that the young
man who was making the awkward enquiries was due at the funeral of
someone called Saxon, and that there was an advertisement about it in
the _Times_. No address was given in the paper but the place of burial
was mentioned so she went there.” He shook his dark head. “In my
experience it’s almost impossible to underestimate anything which Agnes
and her associates are likely to know for certain. They snap up bits of
unrelated information and make a tale of them. They knew the name
Stalkey, hence the destruction of the flat and the fire at the office,
but apparently they didn’t know the name Kinnit. The chance of Agnes
remembering it, if ever she heard it on her brief visit to the country,
is remote. She is a simple defective. He, of course, is quite a
different caper.”

“Ah,” said Mr. Campion, blinking behind his spectacles. “At last we come
to the dark figure in the wood pile, the lighter of fires and smasher up
of flats.”

“Slasher of mail bags and dresses in the cinema, burner of bus seats,
and at least three knife attacks on girls who ought to have known better
than to be out with him.” Luke spoke without venom. “He’s a problem
child,” he added unnecessarily.

“Agnes’s son?”

The Superintendent leant back, tipping his chair, and prepared to enjoy
himself. “She says not. To prove it he has a birth certificate and the
marriage lines of his parents. An almost unheard-of possession in their
vicinity! According to Agnes his name is Barry Cornish. Certainly his
reputed father appears to have done what he could for him.”

“Stap me!” murmured Mr. Campion, who permitted himself unlikely,
expletives when really shaken. “So that’s it.” He was silent for a
moment considering the ramifications of the new position. “Tell me,” he
said at last, “had Cornish any idea of the true story himself?”

“None at all. He accepted Barry meekly. It was only this morning that
Miss Aicheson woke him to tell him a tale about Timothy’s arrival at
Angevin which was quite obviously the other half of one he had already
heard from Agnes’s friends about the other boy. Agnes never invents more
than she needs, you see. That’s the most dangerous thing about her.”

“Yes. It would be. How did Cornish take the discovery that he had been
swindled, virtually blackmailed, all these years by some wretched woman
who’d pinched his son’s papers?”

“He didn’t take it,” said Luke slowly. “He’s an honest chap and he
realised that Barry was probably behind the violence, so he came to me
acting on a moral compulsion. I’ve got the impression that he’s tickled
to death with Timothy, who seems to be very like him, but do you know I
don’t believe he’ll ever attempt to own him to disown the other.”

Mr. Campion sighed. “Poor man,” he said. “He sees his great sacrifice
rejected by the gods and so, no doubt, all the Misses Eumenides let
loose again to plague him.”

“What a funny chap you are, Campion,” he said. “I told him that he was
clinging to a phoney cross. Also of course he’s a perishing official. He
can’t bring himself to believe that there isn’t something sacred about a
certificate!”

“Let me get this absolutely straight for the sake of the record.” Mr.
Campion was diffident as usual. “Your suggestion is that Agnes Leach
left Timothy with Mrs. Broome but retained his papers?”

“Only by accident.”

“Oh, I see. She left the mother’s possessions in a station cloakroom?”

“Better. She parked the whole suitcase on an honest landlady who kept
them until Agnes turned up again five years later. By that time Agnes
had become baby-prone herself—after her chat with Mrs. Broome
perhaps!—and had achieved Barry who was then about four years old. I
imagine she dressed him up in anything she could find in the other
woman’s bag and thought the certificates might fit him since nothing
else did, if she called him five instead of four. He was backward,
wasn’t he? So he could pass for a bit worse. It wouldn’t worry Agnes,”
His eyes began to dance. “Anyway I’ll bet it was the dear good Nuns who
looked up the father for her in all innocence once she produced the
marriage certificate and told the story of rescuing the baby from the
bombs. Agnes has that kind of history.”

Mr. Campion sighed. “I believe all this,” he said sadly. “What about
Agnes and Barry now? Have they been pulled in?”

Luke glanced at his watch. “I dropped the word to Munday, the D.D.I, at
Ebbfield, who has probably got the boy by this time. His last known
address was somewhere in Wandsworth. Sometimes it takes a few hours to
locate a chap like that but there’s never any difficulty in picking him
up in the end.”

“I suppose not. You have some fingerprints from the arson business,
haven’t you?”

“Nothing very good. They were being treated in the lab when I left. I
wanted to get an identification of Agnes from Mrs. Broome off the
record, just in case the woman proved to be involved in a criminal
charge and so become unavailable for private questioning.” Luke was a
little shame-faced about his own consideration and seemed to feel a need
to excuse it. “I never see any point in involving people who have a
little front to keep up if it isn’t necessary,” he went on. “I didn’t
know Mrs. Broome would be so convincing. She might have had to meet
Agnes again before she could be sure. As it is everything is plain
sailing. You ought to be able to convince little Miss Julia’s papa
there’s nothing worse than obstinate self-sacrifice in the lad’s family,
and the poor old Councillor can choose his own bed of nails. Aren’t you
satisfied?”

“No.” Campion was frowning. “The thing that is worrying me, Charles, is
why didn’t she follow her?”

“Why didn’t Agnes follow Nanny Broome?”

“Exactly. The only explanation must be that she had already found the
address of the Well House and the name Kinnit, presumably on one of the
wreaths. She must also have recognised Mrs. Broome. That meeting took
place somewhere around early afternoon, leaving plenty of time for Agnes
to telephone the news to anyone anywhere. She could have spoken to the
cobbler’s shop, for instance.”

Luke was listening doubtfully.

“She might,” he said. “Barry has any intelligence there is between them.
He’s got a sharp mind in a warped sort of way. You feel he might attack
the house because of Timothy?”

“No,” Mr. Campion was gently obstinate. “I think he might be bright
enough to see how many beans make five. Surely the only person on earth
who can testify that Timothy was the baby left at Angevin by Agnes Leach
at the outbreak of war is Nanny Broome?”

Luke sat up. “Corblimeah!” he said. “And we’ve sent her home alone. Let
me get on the telephone!”




                                   16
                               Indictment


Once he was seated at the kitchen table with Alison and Miss Aicheson
facing him, Mrs. Telpher on his left and Eustace on his right, Tim and
Julia in the background draped round the basket chair, Basil Toberman
passed into a stage of ponderous arrogance.

With his face crimson and his full mouth glistening he achieved a
dictator-like appearance, squat, myopic, and preternaturally solemn. The
Kinnit family were bearing with him in their own peculiar way and sat
smiling at him with tolerant superiority, but the rest of the company
was suffering.

“The bronze is unquestion . . . unquestion . . . unquestionably
genuine,” he announced, adding unnecessarily, “I have said it.”

“So we hear.” Miss Aicheson was almost as red as he was and had never
appeared more masculine. “Don’t you think, perhaps, all this could
wait?”

“Silence!” Basil had apparently decided to treat them as a public
meeting. “I have just been half across Europe and have flown through the
sky with one of the greatest experts the world has ever known. I speak
of Leofric Paulfrey of the Museum.”

“Professor Paulfrey!” Eustace was delighted; his face lit up with
pleasure. “Oh splendid. Now that’s an opinion which is really worth
having. Does he say it’s fourth century?”

“_I_ say it’s absolutely genuine.” Toberman was frowning with the effort
of articulation. “It is a fellow to the Boy Jockey of the Artimisian
wreck; in better condition. I am prepared to guarantee that it’s by the
same man.”

“Are you though!” It was Eustace who spoke but both Alison and Geraldine
Telpher looked up with exactly the same twinkling smile of good-tempered
derision.

“Laugh! Go on, laugh!” Toberman’s thick hand shot out in a gesture which
would have been a little oversize in a Pagliacci. “Laugh your heads off.
You can do it today but it’ll be for the last time, because I’ve heard
the truth about you and I never keep my mouth shut, do I?”

“My dear fellow, if you’ve only got the truth about the Bronze it’ll be
enough for one evening!” Eustace turned the attack gracefully and shot
an apologetic glance towards Julia. It was most discreetly done but
Toberman was in the state of over-awareness typical of certain toxic
conditions and he pounced upon the girl, noticing her presence for the
first time, apparently.

“This is fitting,” he declared with thick theatricality. “This is Rich.
This is Justice. Bride of the Wonder Boy meets Family Skeleton.”

“I should hardly call yourself that, Toby.” Tim was juggling with the
situation. “What about a bit of beautiful shut-eye? Shall we go up to
bed?”

“No. Certainly and absolutely not. I am not as canned as that.” Toberman
began to laugh a little himself. “I’ve got something to tell you,
Timothy, and when I do you’re going to know I’m right just as I knew old
Paulfrey was right when he told me. The man was afraid of flying,
Timothy. I saw it. I saw it in his eyes and because I was queasy myself,
as I always am in the air, I suggested we behave like reasonable men and
drink ourselves out of it and that’s how he came to tell me. Otherwise I
don’t suppose he’d have brought himself to talk to me at all. The man
was afraid. He was funky. He sweated. I saw it. To save his face he had
to babble out something and because my name reminded him of the Kinnits
he babbled out this glorious story.”

“Which was that the Bronze was genuine,” said Mrs. Telpher briskly.

“God!” Toberman regarded her with overdrawn contempt. “You’re a Kinnit
and that’s typical. That’s the first, last, and only thing you’d think
of. Don’t worry, Geraldine, you won’t be left out. Professor Paulfrey
was very interested to hear that you were staying with your relatives.
He knew your late husband by repute, he said, and he knows the Van der
Graffs very well indeed. He’s been staying with them. But it was your
governess he was interested in and so was I, my God, when he told me.”
He lurched round to peer at the basket chair. “Timothy? Do you know what
was the really interesting thing about the original Kinnit governess?”

“Basil, you’re becoming an abominable bore!” There was an unfamiliar
edge to Eustace’s voice which jarred warningly on every ear in the room
except, apparently, Toberman’s own.

He swayed a little but was still remarkably articulate.

“Don’t you believe it you silly old Kinnit,” he declared. “Pay attention
my little man. I have news for you. The family secret is out. Miss
Thyrza is vindicated. She wasn’t guilty, Timothy. She didn’t kill the
boy friend. It was her pupil, the thwarted fifteen-year-old Miss Haidée
Kinnit whose immature advances he’d rejected, who prepared the trap for
him. She did the murder and planted the blame, with sweet Kinnitty
cunning squarely upon her more successful rival, the unimportant and
defenceless governess. Moreover, there is a very strong supposition that
the family knew.”

“Basil! Be quiet! Stop him somebody. Eustace, make him be quiet!” An
unexpectedly passionate protest from Alison wiped away any possible
doubt of the truth of the story.

Evidently the ancient tale was taken very seriously by the present-day
Kinnits. Eustace was shaking with anger, every trace of his normal
urbanity gone. Alison was on the verge of tears and for once even
Geraldine Telpher seemed startled out of her natural calm. Her face was
grey and rigid.

Toberman was enjoying himself.

“Now I can understand why old Terence Kinnit made such a business of
hushing up the crime. Why he bought the Staffordshire moulds and moved
house and all the rest of it,” he said happily. “If his daughter was the
murderess the whole thing hangs together and holds water. They’d driven
the poor governess to suicide, you see, between them. I don’t suppose
that worried them. They’d done her a service by taking her in without
references, hadn’t they? So it was her duty to repay them with her life
if necessary. That would be their attitude.”

“Will you hold your tongue, sir?” Eustace when angry was quietly
formidable and some of it got through. Toberman began to complain.

“I don’t see why you should victimise me,” he grumbled. “It all came out
in a book, Paulfrey told me so. At the turn of the century a book was
published which blew the whole gaff. He told me its name. I’ve forgotten
it but it’ll come back. _Ten Trials of Yester Year_ I think he said.
Something corny like that. You’d know, Eustace.”

“Toberman, you’re drunk! Oblige me by going to bed immediately.”

“Don’t you dare to talk to me like that, old man. Your great-grandfather
did mine a favour but you haven’t bought us body and soul! We’re not
lackeys!”

“Good Heavens, boy! What utter nonsense. You must be out of your mind.
Pull yourself together.”

“I am perfectly sober and I am talking to Timothy. Professor Paulfrey
told me that this book which he remembered well was written by a parson
who had known Miss Haidée when she was an old woman. When she died, she
left him a letter confessing the whole thing. He didn’t do anything
about it but put it in a book when he was pretty ancient himself. He was
a damn dull writer and nobody was very interested in Miss Thyrza at that
time, but somebody bought up most of the copies of the only edition. I
wonder who that was. Your father, Eustace?”

“That will do!”

“Anyway, no one appears to have read the book but a few kids, one of
whom was Paulfrey, and the publication passed without comment in the
press.” Basil leant back in his chair and began to laugh.

“There’s no question that it’s true, is there?” he jeered, addressing
Miss Aicheson and the two young people. “Look at them all. Kinnits we
have loved. We’re all in the same boat, you and me. We’re all lame ducks
taken in and enslaved by Kinnits because we were cheap. And we all hang
about ready to take the buck when it’s passed to us.”

Miss Aicheson put a large hand over Alison’s slender wrist. “I shall go
up now, dear,” she murmured. “I can’t stand much more of this.”

At the same moment Eustace turned to Tim. The old man was very white and
there was a helplessness about him which was embarrassing. “It’s not
true,” he said but without conviction.

“Of course it isn’t!” Tim’s response, which was furious, swept the
accusation into perspective. “It’s half true, like all Basil’s lies.
He’s a silly inferior ass and he’s tight as a tick. Come on, Basil. Come
to bed, you ape. No more damn nonsense. Up you get. Come along.”

He left the arm of the basket chair which creaked protestingly, strode
across the room and picked up Toberman in a fireman’s lift. The green
strength of his body emerged as an unexpected deliverer and Toberman
made no attempt to resist. They caught a glimpse of his puffy face and
round stupid eyes, solemn and owlish with his head hanging upside down,
as he was borne away through the doorway.

The abrupt departure left a tingling silence behind it. Miss Aicheson
settled down again but did not release Alison’s arm. “I shall wait for a
moment or two until he’s got him settled,” she murmured.

“Very sensible, Aich.” Eustace smiled at her vaguely and taking out his
handkerchief passed it over his forehead.

“What a silly fellow,” he said. “How tiring. An asinine line to take.”
He glanced towards his sister who was looking down at her plate, her
delicate face pale and expressionless. Opposite him Geraldine Telpher
was in much the same mood. She had withdrawn into herself and appeared
preoccupied. The light was unkind to her. Beyond her he suddenly saw
Julia sitting quiet in the basket chair, and a frown flickered over his
face.

“My dear child,” he said. “I’d quite forgotten you were here. I’m so
sorry you should have had to listen to all this unpleasant nonsense. Tim
will be down in a moment and he shall take you home.”

Julia was young enough to blush scarlet. “I’m staying, I think.”

“Really?” Eustace was the last person to be impolite but he was
irritated and surprised. “Alison? I thought we promised—I mean I
thought that there was an understanding with Julia’s father that the
youngsters shouldn’t meet just now?”

Alison lifted her head, and looked at him blankly. She had been roused
out of deep thought and took some time to surface. “Perhaps there was,”
she said vaguely. “Don’t fuss, Eustace.” She turned to Julia. “Do you
know where your room is?”

“No. I’m afraid I don’t.” Julia was uncomfortable and the situation was
saved by the unexpected appearance of Nanny Broome, pink and pleased
with herself and still wrapped in her purple coat. She came dancing in,
smiling at them all and talking as usual.

“I just got in the door when the phone went,” she announced, addressing
them collectively. “It was my nice policeman asking if I’d got home
safely! I think he felt a little bit guilty that he hadn’t minded his
manners and sent someone with me if he couldn’t bring me himself. Oh,
they’re terribly busy those two. Talking nineteen to the dozen when I
left. Well now, have you all had some nice supper? Where’s Mr. Timmy?”
She was stripping off her thin leather gloves as she spoke and paused to
pull them out and straighten them before she stowed them away carefully
in the side compartment of her good handbag.

Eustace scowled at her.

“Miss Alison tells me that Miss Laurell is proposing to stay here
tonight . . .?” he was beginning when Mrs. Broome sailed in to the
rescue like a hen defending her chick.

“Miss Julia’s been asked to stay here, sir,” she said firmly. “Her
father’s away and it’s a big house right across London, so Miss Alison
and I put our heads together—didn’t we, madam?” The interpolation was a
warning. “And we decided the best thing for her to do was to have the
little room beyond Miss Aicheson’s. It’s all aired and ready and I’ll
just slip a bottle in the bed and she won’t know she isn’t at home.”

“But I thought we’d promised Anthony Laurell—”

“I’m sure I don’t know about that,” Mrs. Broome interrupted him
shamelessly. “All I know is that if Sir Anthony is a proper father, as
I’m sure he is or he wouldn’t be fussing so, he couldn’t care for his
daughter to go home through a neighbourhood like this at night. I’m an
old woman and I’m nothing to look at”—she seemed a little hurt to hear
no cries of protest and her tone became a trifle sharper—“but even I
had quite a little run for it outside here tonight. There are a lot of
dark shadows and people coming out of dark corners where there aren’t
any lampposts and pushing against one and whispering things.”

“What things? You silly woman, what are you talking about?” Eustace was
testy and exasperated. “You do talk a lot of rubbish!”

“Ah, but I make you all very comfortable. There’s a nip in the air
tonight. What about a nice hot toddy?”

“No. We’ve had quite enough alcohol in this room this evening.”

“Really? I thought I smelled it. Mister Basil I suppose?” She was
uncovering the situation with the speed of light. “Mr. Tim’s putting him
to bed, no doubt? It’s very bad for him, all this drinking. He’ll go
just like his father, _bang_, one day. Well, we’ll all have some nice
malted milk. Would you like that, madam?” She addressed Alison, who
shook her head without speaking, but Geraldine Telpher looked up.

“I would like a scotch and soda,” she said. “May I get myself one out of
the dining room as I go up, Eustace?”

“My dear girl, I’ll come and see to it. I’m so sorry. You’re so much one
of us that I forget you don’t know all about our little difficulties.
You must have found Basil very upsetting.” Eustace was still flustered
and Mrs. Telpher waved him back into his seat.

“I’m sure I can manage,” she said with her faintly commiserating smile.
“He didn’t worry me at all. In my life my trials have been rather more
specific and he isn’t my affair. Poor man, if it’s inherited we should
be sorry for him I suppose. Goodnight, everybody.”

“Goodnight, Geraldine.” Eustace waited until the door had closed and the
murmured blessings ended before he turned on Mrs. Broome.

“You really mustn’t say things like that,” he began testily. “Poor old
Ben Toberman may have enjoyed his glass at the end of his days but in
his time he was a most intelligent, sensitive, perhaps oversensitive,
person.”

Mrs. Broome behaved as she always did when reproved by authority. Her
eyes opened very wide and she looked a picture of amazed innocence.

“I didn’t know. I always understood he drank like a fishie,” she said
earnestly. “Delirium tremens and everything and everybody talking. Of
course I didn’t know him at all well. You didn’t like him coming down to
the country, did you?”

Alison roused herself. “That’ll do, Mrs. Broome. Take Miss Laurell up to
her room, please. We’ll make your excuses to Tim when he comes down,
Julia. He may be rather a long time. It’s sometimes very hard to get
Basil to settle. He’s one of those excitable alcoholics. He just won’t
lie down and go to sleep. Such a bore and so tiring. I’m so sorry this
should have happened, my dear.”

It was the most ruthless dismissal a guest could have received. Miss
Aicheson tried to soften it with a smile which would not quite come and
Eustace held out both his hands in a gesture which was more like an
appeal for help than a reassurance of goodwill.

Nanny Broome slipped an arm round Julia’s waist and drew her firmly and
swiftly out of the doorway, so that she was still saying ‘goodnight’ as
the wood closed behind them.

“Mr. Basil always gets them in a state when he does this.” Mrs. Broome
made the confidence as they walked up the broad stairs together to the
hall. “He’s so rude and open and that’s the thing they can’t put up
with. They’re very civilised sort of people, very covered up.”

It was not the easiest statement on which to comment and Julia did not
try. Her own brand of politeness was of the rare long-suffering kind
which is at least one parent of serenity. Instead she said simply, “I
don’t think I shall want a hot-water bottle. It’s very good of you to
think of it but I never have one at home.”

“Very well, you can kick it out but you won’t go to bed yet, surely?”
Nanny Broome paused at the foot of the main flight to look at her in
astonishment. “Poor Mr. Tim hasn’t had a chance to see you at all. What
with Mrs. Telpher and the ladies he can’t have had you to himself for a
second, poor boy.”

Julia laughed. “What had you in mind?” she enquired.

“Eh? Oh, don’t you worry about the oldsters.” Mrs. Broome clearly
considered herself an evergreen. “We all have to jolly them along
because when they get excited they get tired, and when they get tired
they feel poorly and that makes them cross. So I tell you what we’ll
do.” She broke off abruptly and stood aside to permit Mrs. Telpher, who
had emerged from the dining room, to pass them. She was carrying a glass
and smiled at them before she went her placid way up the stairs.

“I shall get you some milky-drink,” said Nanny Broome loudly to her
protégé, adding more softly, “You sip it in your room and brush your
hair, and then when they’ve all gone to bed, which won’t be very long,
you and Mr. Tim can have half an hour in the kitchen in the warm.”

“If you think it’s all right,” Julia was beginning, but Mrs. Broome was
not listening to her. She was looking up the staircase, a thoughtful
expression upon her face.

“That was a very dark whisky, wasn’t it?” she said. “Did you see it? I
suppose it couldn’t have been neat? It was over half a tumblerful. I
wonder now?” She shook her head and answered her own question. “No, I
don’t think so. I should have said she’s too much one of _them_ to do
anything like that. Perhaps she doesn’t pour it out herself as a rule
and has just overdone it. Yet of course you never can tell. Well, come
along, miss. I’ll lead the way, shall I?”

For the first time she turned her back on the guest and put out her hand
to take the baluster rail. The folds of the good purple coat rearranged
themselves and the girl stared at them and put out her hand to touch.

“You’ve torn your coat.”

“I can’t have done, it’s perfectly new. Where is it?” She turned her
head to look over her shoulder and swept her skirts round her, craning
her neck to find the damage.

“It’s not like that.” Julia sounded frightened. “Look. Take it off.”

She lifted the soft woollen garment off Mrs. Broome’s shoulders and
swung it round to face her. The featherweight velour which looked brown
in the subdued artificial light had been scored like the crackling on a
joint of roast pork. Five two-inch-wide slashes had been made from
between the shoulderblades to the hips and the cloth hung like ribbons,
showing the silk lining beneath.

Nanny Broome stared at the damage and for once in her life words
deserted her. Her face, which was never in repose in the ordinary way,
was frozen into a weather-beaten mask on which her discreet powdering
stood out distinctly. The silence in the house was noticeable and the
warm family atmosphere had chilled.

“You said some one pushed against you as you came home. Is that where
you felt it? On the back, here?” Julia was wide-eyed but still very
practical. “You said some one whispered? What was it? Did you hear?”

“Not really. I thought it was a swear word so I didn’t listen. It was a
sort of hiss, that’s all. Oh, miss! This’ll upset everybody. We shan’t
get them to sleep tonight.”

“All the same, we ought to tell the police.”

“Not tonight. I wouldn’t go out there again for a fortune. And I
wouldn’t like anyone else to. My poor best coat! I bought it in Ipswich,
I don’t know what Mr. Broome’s going to say.”

Julia was persistent. “There’s no need to go out to the police station.
We’ll telephone.”

“Not tonight.” There was an unfamiliar undertone in Mrs. Broome’s voice
which Julia recognised. The woman was deeply frightened and not
particularly by the physical attack. She had perceived that the true
danger came from something more serious still, an unclean shadow falling
across her bright nursery world.

“I’ll telephone tomorrow when it’s light,” she said earnestly. “Tonight
we’ll just say our prayers and go to sleep. If we get hold of the police
now they’ll only come round thumping about and upsetting the whole
house, which is edgy enough as it is with Mr. Basil drunk. He’s still
saying awful things about Mr. Tim, I expect.” She glanced round the dark
raftered hall and lowered her voice in confidence. “Tim really didn’t
touch Miss Saxon, you know, miss. I was there. She died of a sort of
fit. I saw her afterwards and I thought, ‘You look as if you’ve
suffocated, you poor old girlie.’ The blood rushed to her head and
smothered her. That’s what I’m always frighted of with Mr. Eustace. He
looked terrible tonight, I thought. Mr. Basil ought to be muzzled.”

“I could ring Mr. Campion.”

“Do it tomorrow. He’d only tell my nice Superintendent and _he’d_ have
the place upside down. I know his sort. No one better when you feel like
it, but very tiring when you want to go to bed. Oh, my goodness! Now
what?”

They both started violently as a commotion occurred suddenly at the top
of the stairs.

Basil Toberman, barefooted and in pyjamas, had appeared on the landing
with Tim, looking grey and furious, behind him.

“I am going to get myself a snifter. Go away, Wonder Boy. I want a
drink. Don’t I make myself plain?” Below the bogus authority there was
the thin high note of delirium which rings a danger signal in every
human ear. Tim seized him and began to heave him back to his room.

“You’re not going to drink any more tonight.” His voice, breathless with
exertion and lowered in an attempt not to disturb the house, floated
down to them in the warm air. “Oh, for holy moses sake, man, come back
to your bed like a good little bloke. You’ll start seeing things if you
don’t look out. Have a heart, Basil. You’re driving me round the bend.”

Another scuffle followed and then a door slammed. Mrs. Broome sighed.

“Poor Mr. Tim! It is a shame just when he particularly wants to get him
quiet so that he can come down to talk to you. Mr. Basil is bad tonight.
Just like his papa whatever Mr. Eustace says. He couldn’t have meant all
that, you know. He just likes to hear himself saying ungenerous things.
That’s all that is.”

“How long will it take Tim to get the man to sleep?”

“Oh, until Mr. Basil’s exhausted, I’m afraid.” Mrs. Broome made the
pronouncement casually. “He’s had a very long day so he may drop off
presently, but I have known him play up for a couple of hours wearing
everybody clean out. It’s a very long-suffering family you’re marrying
into, miss.”

“Why on earth do they put up with him?”

Mrs. Broome laughed. “Oh, it’s not only with him, my dear. They put up
with the most extraordinary people. They gather them. It’s only because
they like to be tolerant. I never heard that the older generations were
like it but the way Mr. Eustace and Miss Alison go on you’d think they
were trying to work off some sort of sin they’d committed!”

The thought flitted out of her head and she gave the little
self-conscious wriggle which was so characteristic of her.

“Now I’m not like that at all,” she said happily. “If I love somebody
I’ll forgive them, but if I don’t I certainly won’t. If you put up with
people who are awful and you don’t even love them then you’re
encouraging awfulness and nothing more. Well, I mean to say, aren’t you?
Never mind. Come along and I’ll tell you all about my Mr. Luke. He was
ever so interested in Mr. Tim and it will be nicer thinking of that than
crying out over my poor mauve coatie.”




                                   17
                         The Boy in the Corner


The kitchen smelled warm and airless and the only light came from the
small glowing rope across the bright shield of the electric heater which
Mrs. Broome had put in the mock fireplace to make it look “like home”
for the sweethearts.

The door into the house opened cautiously and Tim put his head in.
“Julia?”

“I’m here in the chair.” They were both whispering and he came round the
table, feeling his way cautiously.

“Is he quiet now?” she murmured as he bent over the chair.

“I think so. He keeps dropping off, snoring like a donkey-engine and
waking himself up again. Then he thinks he’ll go and find a short one
for his dry throat! However, forget him. I think he’s about had it
tonight. Where are you? Oh my God, my darling, where are you?”

“Here. Come on, there’s plenty of room.”

He scrambled into the protesting basket, wriggling his shoulder under
her and pulling her head into the hollow of his neck.

“Damn this chair! What a thing to make love in! How like Nan to expect
us to.” Julia was laughing, shaking the noisy contraption, and he joined
her.

“She’s keeping the party light,” she gasped.

He began to titter. “We might as well try to go to bed in an accordion!
Don’t laugh, don’t laugh. ‘It’ll end in tears.’ I want to kiss you. I
want to kiss you. Where’s your mouth, woman?”

Julia stiffened. “Listen.”

The boy craned his neck and they held their breath.

All round them the house creaked and breathed but was still an oasis of
partial quiet amid the vast city’s endless noise. Yet the only
recognisable sounds which came in to them were far-off ones, tugs
hooting on the river, the rumble of hidden trains.

“I’m sorry,” Julia whispered. “I thought I heard him on the stairs.”

“He wouldn’t come down here. If he is up again he’s streaked off to the
dining room tantalus, in which case there’ll be an almighty crash in a
minute as he falls flat on his face. He only needs another shot to put
him out cold. He’s got me down this time. Put him out of your mind.”
Timothy settled himself again but the moment had passed, and although he
was holding her possessively, rubbing his lips against her ear, she
could feel that his thought had wandered from her. She controlled the
thrill of panic but it was not easy and she shivered.

“What’s the matter now?”

“Nothing. It was only a sort of feeling. Don’t you get them? You feel
you’re waiting, watching for the exact moment when something new is
about to begin.”

“Here?”

“No, I wasn’t thinking about us for once.” Her cheek was hot on his own.
“I didn’t mean an act so much as a turn in the road. You feel that one
curl of the pattern is nearly finished and another is just about to
spring out of it, and all the people involved are converging to the
right spot whether they like it or not. Don’t you know what I mean?”

“No,” he said honestly. “No I don’t dig that sort of thing myself but I
don’t mind you doing it. In fact I rather like it. I’m a bit shaken
tonight, though. All that stuff of Basil’s in here just now. That was
new, you know.”

“About Miss Thyrza? I wondered.”

He moved restlessly. “It was true, you see.” The whispering seemed to
lend importance to the confidence. “We all recognised it as soon as he
said it. Did you notice? It was like suddenly seeing something awful and
unmistakable, like blood on the road. The penny simply dropped.
Everything one had ever heard or noticed fitted in. I remembered at
once, for instance, that there was some mystery long ago about a book
being suppressed. A master at school referred to it with an odd
inflection in his voice but I never heard the story and it had remained
a mystery all my life.”

“But does it matter? Miss Thyrza died well over a hundred years ago.”

“Oh, we shan’t have the police in because of Basil’s discovery! Now it’s
you being obtuse, my little muggings. It’s rather worse than that, in my
opinion, because one spots the basic living sin which the original crime
exposed. The Kinnit family _is_ what Basil said it was. They do tend to
capitalise their charitable acts since they do them for the wrong
purpose. They don’t keep helping folk for the warm silly reason that
they like the people concerned, but for the cold practical one that they
hope to see themselves as nice people doing kind things. Alison and
Eustace are particularly unfortunate. They know all about this and don’t
like themselves very much because of it. Basil hurt them horribly. They
know they’re missing something by being so cold but they don’t know what
it is. The rest of us recognised that suddenly. Blast Basil.”

“But Eustace is fond of you. Really fond.”

“He is, isn’t he?” It was an eager whisper. “I was thinking that. He’s a
cold old fish but there is a warmish patch there.” He turned his head
and kissed her ear. “Thank God for you, Lovely. This has been a night of
revelation for me. I should have hated it alone.”

“I don’t think it’s over yet,” she said, creeping yet closer to him.
“Anyone who is loved as much as Eustace is by you must be thawed a bit.”
She heard her own jealousy and hurried to disarm it. “If you’re
responsible for the thawing you mustn’t ever stop. You know that, don’t
you?”

“Yes,” he said. “I know that.” She could feel his heart beating under
her cheek and her thought followed his own.

“You owe _her_ a lot.”

“Nan? Twice as much as everything! She’s balmy. She goes through the
world like an old butterfly clinging to its wings in a bombardment.
They’re all she’s got so you can’t blame her. I say, did you see her
coat? She showed it to me just now up on the landing.”

“I noticed it first. It’s terrifying. I didn’t realize this district was
as tough as that. She wouldn’t let me telephone the police.”

“I know. She told me. She was still playing the whole thing down just
now upstairs on the landing. That means she takes it very seriously
indeed. If Nan thinks something is merely naughty she points to it and
screams the place down, but once she perceives what she feels is Evil,
she hides. She’s a type and they drive some people round the bend, but I
remember as a kid thinking that God must be fond of her because she took
such inordinate delight in ‘His Minor Works.’”

“She’s very taken with Superintendent Luke just now.”

“So I gathered. How does he come into the picture? Does that mean
underground assistance from your influential Papa?”

“No. I’m afraid that was me. I told Councillor Cornish that if he had
any idea who had started the Stalkey fire he ought to tell Mr. Luke and
I think he may have done so, but from what Mrs. Broome reports of her
interview they don’t seem to have talked entirely about the fire. Tim?
I’ve been thinking about Councillor Cornish.”

“So have I, sweetie. That’s my true old man, isn’t it?”

“Do you think so?” She turned her head quickly, her voice sibilant in
the darkness. “I’m sure you belong to the same family.”

“I think it’s a bit more than that. So does he.”

They were silent for a while, lying close in the chair, their heads
together and their breath mingling.

“When did you decide about this?”

“I didn’t decide at all. It’s been sort of seeping into certainty all
day. The cobbler was the first person to put the thought into my head.
As soon as he heard that I had been evacuated from Ebbfield as a baby he
became vehement that I should go to see Cornish. He didn’t commit
himself but he was extraordinarily insistent. ‘Let Cornish have a look
at yer,’ he kept saying. ‘Go and let him ’ave a look!’” He hesitated.
“The likeness really is phenomenal, I suppose? I saw Aich eyeing us very
oddly this morning.”

“It’s pretty strong. It lies in movements and personal tricks of
behaviour as much as in anything else. When you’re nervous you clutch
your ear in the way he does.”

He caught his breath. “Do you know I noticed that! He did it when I
first saw him and it made me furious. This is horribly dangerous
emotional ground, I feel, don’t you? I don’t like it very much.”

“Are you going to mind if it does turn out to be him?”

“No, I don’t think so.” Here in the dark their intimate communion had
the quality of complete honesty. “I’ll be rather relieved, I think. I
mean I _am_ rather relieved. He’s the sort of person I know best,
anyway. He’s an intellectual trying to be practical. He could easily
have been a don or a boffin if his training had turned that way. As it
is, a lot of that drive of his is being spent on being indignant. I feel
I know him frightfully well which is what I resent about him.”

“You’re annoyed that you are like him?”

“No. Of course not. I’m very grateful. I do want to belong to someone’s
line.”

“Why?”

“I told you. When at last I realised that I really was not a Kinnit I
felt utterly lost. I felt I didn’t know what was coming next and that
when it did I might be entirely unable to cope. It wasn’t ordinary
windiness at all but something subterranean.”

“But you had _me_.”

“Bless you! Of course I had and thank God for it, but this wasn’t
loneliness. You can see what I mean if you think of this latest business
of Eustace and Alison and poor Miss Thyrza. That story has taken over a
hundred years already and they aren’t at the end of it yet. Our days
appear to be ‘longer in the land’ than we are—that’s about the essence
of it.” He was silent for a time. “I don’t know how _he’s_ going to
react,” he said at last. “He has a new wife who is not my Mum. It may be
that.”

“Which makes him so determined that it shan’t be true?”

“Hell! Why did you say that?”

“I don’t know. I just thought that he did have some reason. But I don’t
think it’s a low one. It’s something he feels rather tragic about.”

“What an extraordinary thing to say! How do you know?”

“Because you sometimes have very strong reasons for not doing something
you want to do very much, and when you have you feel tragic about them,
and when that happens you look and act as he did today.”

“Poppycock! Sorry darling, but that’s nonsense. I never feel tragic.
Shut up. You’re talking rubbish.”

“My arm has gone to sleep.”

“Oh, my dear, I’m so sorry! Is that better? Darling? Julia? What’s the
matter?”

She had become rigid at his side and he caught her alarm and copied her
so that there was no sound at all save the thumping of their hearts.

“A light.” She formed the words with her lips and breathed so softly
that they came to him like ghosts.

“On the stairs?”

“No. The other way. Look.”

“What?” It was a moment of superstitious alarm for there was no through
way on that side, only the narrow passage and the cellar where the well
was.

Julia was holding Timothy, restraining him, her eyes held by the shadows
which were black round the inner door. As they waited, their bodies
stiff, their necks craned, a clean thin angle of light, wide under the
door and narrow as it slid past the ill-fitting jamb, stabbed across the
floor, wavered, and vanished.

“It’s a bobby who’s found the broken window and is shining his torch
in,” he said softly. “I’ll go and have a word with him or he may come
round to the front and ring. You wait here.”

“No: the light was too near for that. The torch was just outside the
door.”

“Impossible. Stay there.”

He stepped softly across the room, opened the inner door a few inches,
and stood looking in. Now that the shaft of light was wider it appeared
less strong but it still fluctuated, weaving backwards and forwards.
There was still no sound whatever.

Timothy remained motionless and after a while an odd quality in his
stillness conjured sudden panic in Julia.

She rose to her feet very quietly but the chair creaked and a whisper
which was so strained that she hardly recognised it came back to her
across the dark. “Keep still.”

Timothy was too late. She had come up beside him and together they stood
staring down the short passage to the open cellar door.

Something black and sinuous was moving above a torch beam directed
downwards on the stone with the iron ring in it which marked the well.
The figure itself was rooted to a single spot but the pool of light ran
round the crevice busily, probing, darting, resting, moving again,
while, thrown by the diffused upward glow, a writhing shadow reared
across the white wall and ceiling.

As an unexpected confrontation it was shocking because the mind
registered it as an impossibility, something appearing in an empty room
without an entrance. Julia’s little gulp deep in her throat jerked
Timothy out of his frozen astonishment. The light switches for the
passage and the well cellar were on the wall just outside the door and
he brushed his hand over them.

The cellar was lit by a single swinging bulb which gave a hard yellow
light and now the full scene sprang into sight.

There was a harsh slither of rubber on the gritty stone and a soft high
whimpering noise, very thin and bright, as the figure scurried back
under the high window through which he must have entered. He stood there
facing them, still swinging on his strangely rooted feet. Even in full
light he was horrific, and that despite his own terror which came across
to them like an odour. He was tall and phenomenally slender but bent now
like a foetus, seated in the air, knees and one forearm raised very
slightly and the whole of him swaying as if he were threaded on wires.
He was dressed in black from head to foot in jacket and jeans so tight
that they did not permit a wrinkle, let alone a fold, and also—an item
which gave him a deliberate element of nightmare—his head and face were
covered with a tight black nylon stocking which flattened his features
out of human likeness without hiding them altogether. The other factor
which was dismaying was that even at a distance he appeared deeply and
evenly dirty, his entire surface covered with that dull iridescence
which old black cloth lying about in city gutters alone appears to
achieve.

Timothy recovered himself first and reacted in the only way left to this
century’s youth, which has had its fill of terrors. He proceeded to
laugh it off. He pointed to the well-head with an expressive gesture,
rather as if he did not expect the newcomer to understand words.

“Are you going down or coming up?”

The figure giggled. It was a little snuffling sound, very soft and
ingratiating. Also he relaxed and straightened so that the horrible bent
quality induced by his sudden alarm was almost lost. He remained on
wires however, still rooted to the single spot under the window, still
swinging.

“Do you know what’s down there? Have you ever had it open?”

It was a soft, lisping voice, very quiet indeed and by no means
ill-educated but muffled by the nylon mask. Neither Julia nor Timothy
spoke and their silence appeared to worry him. His black stocking mask
was open at the top and now he pulled it down, using his left hand. His
right was either useless or hidden behind him.

The face which emerged was not reassuring. It was blunt and grey, the
nose springing thick and flat from high on the frontal bone of the
forehead, whilst his eyes were narrow slits of dark in a tight bandage
of tissue. He was not a Mongol but there was deficiency of a sort there,
and it was not made more pretty by a latter-day haircut which involved
eccentrically long elf-locks and oiled black curls.

Experimentally, his right hand still behind him, he edged forward until
he reached the well-stone again and presently he touched it with a long
shoe; it appeared to fascinate him.

“There could be thousands of pounds down there. Treasure and stuff like
that.” The soft little voice was still offhand. He was boasting, but in
an uncertain way which made the statement half a question.

“What makes you think that?” Tim spoke cautiously, aware of Julia behind
him. He could feel her shaking and guessed that the narrowness of the
bars across the window above the intruder was causing most of her
horror. The fact that the visitor must have squeezed between them was
obtrusive and unnerving since it underlined his reptilian quality, which
was deliberately accentuated anyway, to a degree which was unbearable.

“It’s old, you see?” The lisping, tooth-sucking accent was very slight
but the arrogance was there. “The house is called after it. I mean to
say, that’s the ad-dress, isn’t it? The Well House. That means it’s old,
and old wells in the City have been used for more things than water and
not only for what you’d think. There’s been plagues, you know, and
people have been put down quickly with no time to go over them properly.
Everything rots but metal. I see you don’t read, yourself.”

Elementary academic snobbery was the last thing his listeners expected
and it almost touched off hysteria.

“Do you?” Tim asked. He had not smiled but the newcomer took offence.
His sensitivity was psychopathetically acute and was almost telepathy.

“Do you mind?” he enquired, rearing backwards but without moving his
feet. “I do as a matter of fact and I’ve had access to some very
remarkable books. You’d be surprised what you can find out in a library.
If you’ve got all the time in the world.” There was no mistaking his
meaning or his pride in it and again they were silent and out of their
depth. He looked them over consideringly.

“You two work here I suppose, waiting on them upstairs. I should have
thought in a house like this they’d make you wear uniforms but that’s
old-fashioned, isn’t it? ‘Au pair,’ that’s what you are now. That’s what
they call you. Well, shut up and you won’t come to any harm I think. I
want to see Basil and I want to see him alone.”

“Who?”

“Basil. You know who I mean. I know he’s here. I saw him come in. He’s
drunk but that won’t matter. He’ll understand what I’ve got to say to
him if he’s paralysed. The girl can slip me up to his room and I shan’t
touch either of you two. Basil Kinnit. That’s who I want.”

“But there’s no such person!” The words escaped Julia for the second
time that day and the superstitious element surrounding them flared
suddenly in her mind, and she put her hand over her mouth because she
was afraid of screaming.

Her alarm seemed to reach the newcomer physically as if he had heard or
smelled it, for he retreated a yard or so and stood swaying again, not
quite weaving but horribly near it. He was also angry.

“You’re lying, you’re in love with him, you’re hiding him.”

He was spitting and whispering and the short syllables were like grit in
the fluff of sound.

“Nonsense.” Tim took over. He was puzzled, curious rather than
frightened, and his tone was soothing. “Who is it exactly that you want?
Let’s get it quite clear. There is no Basil Kinnit. Are you sure you
have the name right?”

“Well, yes. As a matter of fact I am.” The newcomer relaxed again and
the confidential lisp, soft and ingratiating, returned to his voice.
“I’ve known his name was Kinnit for a long time, see? But I only got the
Basil today. I had to wait for a telephone call.” He conveyed that he
considered the use of the instrument to be important and romantic. “I
put a friend of mine on to find out and she telephoned from outside the
cemetery and left a message for me at a shop we use for that sort of
thing. ‘His name is Mr. Basil and the address is The Well House.’ That
was the message I got. When I heard that, well, I mean to say it was
waiting for me, wasn’t it? There was no point in me messing about any
longer. So I came round right away.”

“But you must have been here some time. When did you take the glass out
of the window?”

He seemed to have no objection to answering questions. His answers were
glib and at least partially truthful.

“This afternoon. I’ve been round here all the time. There’s a lot of
perching places round here, see. It’s made for it and you don’t see a
bogie. I smoked twenty sitting in a ventilator next door. Twenty.” It
was a boast. “Twenty in an afternoon.”

“Why did you wait so long?”

“I always wait. I like to look round. I like to know who comes in and
out. It’s my business. I’m interested, see? Mr. Basil Kinnit, that’s who
I want to talk to.”

“What do you want to say to him?”

“I want to warn him to lay off me. I want to teach him not to interfere,
see? I don’t like private dicks making enquiries into my birth, see? I’m
not having no prying, see? And nor is Ag. I’ve given his bloodhounds a
warning and now I’m going to warn him. And you two can keep your mouths
shut or you’ll learn the same song. . . . Words _and_ music.” The final
phrase had no meaning but was a threatening series of sounds only, and
he repeated them with satisfaction. “Words _and_ music!”

“Why should he want to know about your birth?” Tim’s quiet question was
yet so forceful that it captured his wayward intelligence and held it on
course.

“Because he wants to stop Ag getting the money, see? My Dad slips her a
bit, see? As soon as Ag heard about this Kinnit lark it came to her what
it was about, see? Ag’s not a great intelligence. She’s got no mind.
She’s not with it, really, but she’s bright enough over money. She knew
what he was after and so she came to me and told me and of course I took
it up. Tonight will put a stop to his mucking about round us.”

“Is Ag your mother?”

“No, she’s not. She’s not. She’s not. She never said so and she isn’t.
She’s a friend; she’s interested. She does what I say. Like today. She
went to the graveyard, see? I told her she’d find the address on a
wreath when we couldn’t find it in the paper but she went right away.
Then she used the telephone.”

“All right. I understand.”

“You don’t. You don’t understand. You’ve got no idea. I’m not ordinary,
see? Ag rescued me when I was born. I wasn’t born normally, see? A lot
of famous people aren’t as a matter of fact, if you read history and all
that. I wasn’t quite in the world when a bomb hit the hospital I was in.
On the first day of war this was, and my Mum was killed and Ag rushed in
and picked me up like a kitten and carried me off all bloody to the
rescue buses. Then she had to look after me, she was months going round
the camps, until she found my papers and the nuns took over for her and
found my Dad.”

“But there were no bombs on the first day of the war. There were no
bombs for a year.” Julia made the protest and got the full repercussion.

“That’s a lie!”

It was an objection which he appeared to have heard before.

“People say anything but they’re wrong and I’m here to prove it anyway,
aren’t I? I’m not ordinary. I’ve got certificates. I’m legal. I’ve got
rights. My Dad and Mum were legally married. In a mucking church. It was
a white wedding. Five hundred guests, I believe. Fancy spending all that
on a do. It’s amazing!”

“What is your name?” Tim was trying to distract his attention from
Julia.

“You’ve got a nerve! What’s my name? I’m not sure I shan’t pay you for
that. That’s cheek, that is. That’s what they call it in the posh
schools. Cheek. What’s my name? Do me a favour! You must think I’m
bonkers.”

“Is it Cornish?” Julia spoke as Timothy thrust her behind him.

He was just in time. The figure made a dart at her and for the first
time brought out his right hand. The sight of it sent them both back on
their heels and their reaction satisfied him. He paused to enjoy the
sensation he was making. Up to the elbow his arm was a paw furnished
with mighty blood-stained talons, fantastic and improbable horror
familiar to connoisseurs of certain comic strips and films.

Its realism as far as construction and fit were concerned was quite
remarkable and as convincing as moulded and painted rubber, inset with a
certain amount of genuine monkey fur, could make it. Only the
distinctive convention in which the original designer had worked lent it
a merciful artificiality.

Timothy began to laugh. “We had some of those last term,” he said. “Did
you get it from the joke shop in Tugwell Street?”

The newcomer forgot his anger and smirked himself. He sat back in the
air again, but intentionally this time, and let his forearms swing
upwards from the elbows, his hands flapping.

“Child of the Fall-out,” he said and laughed.

The offbeat joke which to any other generation must be indescribably
shocking amused them all, albeit a little guiltily, but it was very
short-lived. Flushed with his triumph over them, he turned his right
hand in its ridiculous glove palm uppermost. The five razor blades
appearing through the rubber caught the hard light.

Tim leapt straight for him, caught his upper arm and jerked it
backwards. It was a purely instinctive movement so prompt and thorough
that it came as a complete surprise. The stranger’s reaction, which was
equally spontaneous, almost overbalanced them both. He began to scream
in a terrifying, hoarse, but not very loud voice and every joint in his
body sagged limply to the ground, so that Tim was left holding his full
weight. He let him drop and put his foot on his shoulder while he
stripped off the glove. The razor blades were stitched into a webbing
bandage inside it and its removal was a major operation with the
quivering, yelping creature writhing round his feet on the stones. When
he stopped screaming he began to swear and the stream of filth, in the
soft lisping voice, had a quality of nastiness which was out of their
experience. Tim turned a furious face on Julia.

“Take these damn things out of the way and put them somewhere safe.
Don’t cut yourself, for God’s sake. You’ll get tetanus, they’re dirty
enough.”

She obeyed him silently, taking both glove and bandage, and disappeared
into the dark kitchen.

Left to himself Tim stood back and wiped his hands.

“Shut up and get up,” he said.

The speed with which the creature on the floor leapt to the window high
in the wall was as sudden as Tim’s own leap at his arm had been, and had
the same instinctive precision. Only the bars prevented him from getting
away. Their close spacing, which had required a certain amount of
negotiation even from one so slender, effectively prevented him from
bolting through and he fell back and lay against the wall, hanging
limply, a black streak against the grey.

“Get down and turn round.”

The newcomer obeyed. His subservience was more distasteful than his
arrogance. He shuffled into a corner and stood in it, letting it support
him. His dirty hands hung limp in front of him. His face was wet with
sweat and blubber and he smelled like a sewer.

“What is your name?”

“Barry Leach, Sixty-three Cremorne Street, The Viaduct, E.”

He gave the information in a stream, clearly the result of long
experience, and then paused. A new idea passed over his face as visibly
as if he were an infant. “That’s the name I arrange with Ag to give.
It’s her name. She’s Mrs. Leach. We don’t give my Dad’s name until we
have to. It’s part of Ag’s arrangement, see? We keep him quiet and he
pays up. It’s Ag’s address too. I live with her when I live anywhere,
but you know my real name that’s on my papers so it’s no use hiding it
from you. Ag’s got my papers. She doesn’t show them but she’s got them
and I read them when I feel like it.”

“Do you ever see your father?”

Timothy was concentrating and much of the youthfulness had left his face
so that he looked tired and absorbed. He made a good looking but worried
young man, very much a product of the age. “Does he talk to you?”

“Sometimes.”

“How often?”

“Not as often as he wants. Can’t take him, see?”

“Why’s that?”

“Well, he’s old—we’re not the same generation, see. We don’t see things
the same way. He’s got no sense of humour. You’ve got more humour than
he has. It’s age, see?”

“But he gives you money?”

“He gives Ag money for me.”

“Why?”

“Well, I don’t keep it a day, see. I spend it. I take taxis when I have
any money.”

“Taxis? Where to?”

“Oh, I don’t know. Anywhere. I like taxis, they make me feel I’m who I
am . . . educated and legitimate and that.”

“I see. Have you ever lived with your father?”

“No. I never wanted to. Ag’s right when she’s against that. Your soul
wouldn’t be your own, not with him. He’s very rich but he doesn’t spend
it. He’s a do-gooder. It’s because he thinks I ought to be living with
him, and he doesn’t want it because he’s got a new wife, that he keeps
giving Ag money for me. If you read you keep learning about men like
that. Guilty, that’s what he is. It suits me.”

“Where do you do your reading?”

“Inside. I got a job in the library, see, because I’m educated. The
screws can’t read at all. They don’t know half the books they’ve got in
those libraries. It makes me laugh and it would you too. You’re about my
age, aren’t you? The old generation is responsible for the next. That’s
what they think. But it’s not true. It’s your own generation, that lives
with you, isn’t it? Blaming the bloody old fools doesn’t help. I didn’t
read that, you know. I thought it. I think sometimes. What are you going
to do with me?”

“When?”

“Do me a favour! Now, of course. Have you gone soft or something? Push
me out, that’s what you’d better do. Push me out. You might lose your
job if they found us together. I might say anything and you couldn’t
deny it. I’ve got a say same as you have. I’m legal. I’ve got papers,
you can’t take those away. Can you?”

“Something is happening upstairs.” Julia’s voice came in to them from
the passage. “Tim! Somebody is screaming upstairs.”

“No, I don’t think I want to.” Tim was answering the boy in the corner.
He turned and spoke to Julia.

“The house is aroused, is it? I think we’d better take him with us. He’s
our pidgin.”




                                   18
                               Night Cap


“Very nice,” said Luke, settling back in Mr. Campion’s most comfortable
chair. A glass was in his hand, the telephone was on his knee to save
him having to get up when it should ring again, and his feet were on the
fender. “This is how I like waiting. We’ll give them another half hour.
O.K.?”

His host glanced up from the message he was reading. He had found it on
his desk when they had come in to the Bottle Street flat some little
time before, and his anxiety to see if it had arrived had been one of
the reasons why he had asked Luke in for a night cap instead of being
persuaded to go elsewhere after they had left the dining room of the
Eagle Tavern. It was a long dispatch, written in Mr. Lugg’s schoolboyish
hand, and had been taken down from the telephone which in England is now
so often used for the relaying of telegrams. Mr. Campion had read it
without astonishment and now there was a curiously regretful smile on
his pale face as he put it into his pocket.

Luke cocked an eye at him. “Secrets?” he suggested. “You don’t tell us
more than you have to, do you, you old sinner? I don’t blame you, we’ve
got no finer feelings. Lugg has gone to bed on principle, I suppose?
What does he do, a forty-hour week?”

“He says it’s nearer a hundred and forty and that if he had a union he’d
complain to it, ruin me, and be deprived of the little bit of comfort he
_has_ got! I could hardly help overhearing you on the telephone just
now. They’ve got Mrs. Leach, then?”

Luke’s grin appeared widely, as it only did when he was truly amused.
His eyes shone with tears of laughter and his mouth looked like a cat’s.
“I don’t know why these gormless habituals tickle me so,” he said. “It’s
not a nice trait. They do, though. Do you know where she was all the
time? In custody at the Harold Dene nick.”

“The cemetery Harold Dene?”

He nodded. “On a charge of pinching flowers and trying to sell them to
the little shop opposite the main gates. The startled proprietor had
only just handed an expensive and distinctive sheaf of arum lilies to a
regular customer, who hadn’t left the shop above fifteen minutes so he
could hardly ignore it, when she brought them in. He asked Agnes to wait
while he got some money and nipped out of the back door to find a
policeman. While he was away she helped herself to a telephone call and
was just hanging up as he returned with a copper. We find ’em, don’t
we!” He was silent for a moment and sat sipping his drink and looking
into the gas fire as if he saw castles there.

“That boy Timothy was lucky,” he observed at last. “That was his Mum’s
last throw turned that number up. Some guardian angel looked after him
all right.”

He appeared to be very serious, the long waving lines deep on his
forehead. “Remember that tale we heard tonight about the headscarf? I
thought at the time it had the true outlandish ring about it. Little
white lambs dancing on a blue field and ‘Happy and Gay’—_Happy and
Gay!_—written all over it in flowers. I ask you, Campion! Think of that
poor girl, dying in a hospital which everyone confidently expected to be
bombed in a couple of hours. She was married to a nervy,
overconscientious nut who didn’t even know he was a father and was away
on active service anyhow. Her only relative was helpless and there was
no one to mother the baby. So what did she do? She caused the kid to be
wrapped in a shawl marked ‘Happy and Gay’ and then dropped off
uncomplaining into Eternity. What happened? What you’d think? Not on
your nellie! A bird turned up out of the air, a wayward nit, who scooped
up the kid as a pink ticket to safety and flapped off with it, to drop
it neatly into the empty cradle of the one kind of woman who wouldn’t
see anything extraordinary about its arrival and who found the message
perfectly comprehensible. There you are, a straight answer to a straight
prayer.”

Mr. Campion regarded his friend dubiously.

“It’s one way of looking at it,” he said. “There are others.”

“Not if you take her viewpoint.” Luke was unrepentant. “Locate the true
protagonist of each story and straight away you’re living in an age of
miracles. That’s my serious and considered opinion. I see no other
reasonable explanation for the stuff I come across.” He laughed and
dismissed the whole stupendous subject. “Munday is wild, I understand,”
he remarked. “There’ll be some ruffled plumage to be smoothed down
there, I shouldn’t wonder.”

“Hadn’t he realised that Barry Leach was anything to do with Cornish?”

“He didn’t know Barry Leach or Barry Cornish existed. Why should he?”
Luke was mildly ferocious. “One Charles Luke, Superintendent, might have
pulled a finger out and recollected something about a small-time problem
brat in a totally different manor when the flat wrecking case first came
up, but did he? No, of course he didn’t. He’d never heard of the silly
twit until this afternoon when he put a query through to records. It’s
my fault. Cornish is somebody in Munday’s area. It might have helped him
had he known about this skeleton in his cupboard before. Munday has a
grievance.”

“Will he show it?”

“I don’t know. It’ll be interesting to see, won’t it?” As if in answer
to his question the telephone upon his knee began to ring and he lifted
the receiver.

“Luke,” he said, and brightened visibly. “Ah. Hello. Your name was on my
lips, Chief. How goes it? What? Here? Why not? Mr. Campion won’t mind,
he may even give you a drink. Right away then. O.K.”

He hung up and made one of his comic faces.

“He’d like to have a direct word with me, _if_ I don’t mind. Very proper
and correct. That’ll teach me!”

He was still mildly apprehensive when Munday appeared ten minutes later;
and when Mr. Campion, who had not met him before, let him in the thin
man was surprised by the newcomer’s attitude, which was not at all what
he had been led to expect. The correct pink-faced official was neither
reproachful towards Luke nor packed with secret satisfaction at the new
advantage he had suddenly acquired over the Councillor. Instead he came
in with the unmistakable air of a man determined to put a delicate piece
of tactics across. His light eyes were cautious and his prim mouth
smiling.

“I must apologise for intruding on your hospitality at this time of
night, Mr. Campion,” he said with an effusiveness which was obviously
foreign to him. “I’ve always hoped to meet you but this is an
imposition.”

Luke, who listened to him with astonishment, relaxed openly.

“He won’t mind,” he said cheerfully. “Even if he won’t tell me what’s in
his telegram. Now then Chief, what’s happening? Have you got the boy?”

“Not yet, Superintendent. But he was noticed by a uniformed man in
Scribbenfields this afternoon before the call went out, so he’s about
there as you supposed. He hasn’t been seen since it got dark but the
building is being watched and I’ve had a word myself with the woman
Leach.” He shook his fair head. “A poor type,” he said. “Not imbecilic
you understand, but a distressingly poor type. She admits telephoning
the cobbler’s shop and leaving a message for Barry Leach with Miss Tray.
Just the name and address of the person she thinks was responsible for
hiring the Stalkeys, that’s all.”

“Did she say how she got it?”

“She got the surname and the address from a label on a wreath, and the
first name she learned from something said by a woman she saw by the
grave, and whom she thought she recognised as someone she’d met years
ago in the country, she doesn’t know where.”

“Ah,” said Luke. “So Mrs. B. did speak. I thought that story of
uncharacteristic silence was too good to be true.”

“Probably she spoke to herself, don’t you think?” ventured Mr. Campion,
who had appreciated Mrs. Broome in his own way. “Having picked up the
habit from Alice in Wonderland, no doubt.”

“Alice? That’s just about what she is!” Luke was hearty. “Classic and
intended for children. What about this watch on the Well House, Bob? We
don’t want any more tricks with firelighters; that place is full of
antique curiosities.”

“So I understand. Some of them human.” Munday could have been joking but
his expression of complete seriousness was unchanged. “I don’t think
there’s any fear of that. I have two good men on it and the uniformed
branch is cooperating. We haven’t alarmed the occupants yet.” He
hesitated and they realised that he was coming to the purpose of his
visit. “I’ve taken an unusual step which I hope you will approve,
Superintendent.”

“Oh yes, what is it?” Luke was highly intrigued by the entire approach.
“What’s the matter with you, Munday?”

“Nothing, sir, but I don’t know if you quite appreciate the peculiar
position of a fellow like Councillor Cornish in a place like Ebbfield.”
He took the bull by the horns. “I’ve taken the liberty of informing him
and he’ll be present when we make the arrest. I’d like it. I’d be
happier.”

“Do what you like, old boy. It’s your baby.”

Luke was sitting up like a cat, his eyes bright as jet bugles. “I didn’t
know the local governments had such powers. He can make you a lot of
trouble if not buttered, can he?”

For the first time Munday smiled, his thin lips parted in a frosty
smirk.

“It’s not that,” he said. “But he has a position to keep up, you
understand, and he’s at a great disadvantage in being a man of
remarkable conscience. Such people are more common in Scotland than they
are here.”

“I don’t get this at all,” said Luke frankly, “but it fascinates me.
What are you frightened of?”

Munday sighed. “Well,” he said, “let me put it to you this way. Suppose
he comes to his son’s rescue as he has before, I understand, and he sees
him in custody with one or two abrasions on him, perhaps.”

Luke ducked his chin. “I like ‘abrasions,’” he murmured. “Then what?”

“Then the father has a great fight with his terrible conscience,” said
Munday with granite seriousness. “Should he make a row with the police
who may have done their duty a little overconscientiously, thereby
calling attention to himself? Or should he say nothing about it and
condone brutality for fear of appearing in the newspapers?” He paused.
“I know him. In the ordinary way I have dealings with him once or twice
a week. He’s an awful nuisance but a good man. Every devil in Hell would
drive him to sacrifice himself and we’d all be smeared over the London
press, let alone the local journal, when we could save ourselves a
scandal in a nice suburb with a splendid building estate.”

Charles Luke thrust a long hand through his hair.

“I haven’t fully appreciated you all these years, Chief,” he said. “I
didn’t know you had it in you. So he’s coming to see the arrest? That’s
very sensible. That’ll do it, will it?”

“Very possibly.” Munday was wooden-faced. “But to make perfectly certain
of the desired effect I have suggested to him that he bring the
probation officer with whom he’s had dealings once or twice before, and
I myself have taken the precaution of borrowing a C.I.D. sergeant from
over on the Essex side. He’s a man who knows Barry Leach well and has,
in fact, arrested him on two previous occasions.”

“Without abrasions?”

“Without abrasions.”

Luke leant back, his dark face alight with amusement.

“Carry on. It’s all in your safe hands, Chief. We’ll stay here and leave
it to you. It’s been a long day!” The telephone bell interrupted him
once more and he took up the receiver. “Luke here.”

He sat listening while the voice at the other end chattered like a
starling just out of earshot. Gradually his face grew more grave and
there was an unnatural stiffness about his wide shoulders.

“Right,” he said at last. “The Chief Inspector’s here. I’ll tell him and
we’ll come along. Goodbye.”

He hung up, pushed the instrument across the table and rose to his feet.

“Come along, chaps,” he said. “The balloon has gone up at the Well
House. There’s no fire but they seem to have had a murder. I’m afraid,
Chief, you’re going to get publicity after all.”




                                   19
                             Meeting Point


When Timothy and Julia hurried up the staircase to the bedroom floor,
where a considerable commotion was taking place, Tim took Barry Leach
with him. He had him gripped firmly by the arm, since he felt that it
was not safe to let him loose, and he had no immediate idea what to do
with him. The captive made no resistance and came not only quietly but
in a series of eager little rushes like a timid dog on a choke chain.

The only lights left on in the house were two of the lamps in the
candelabra which hung in the stairwell, so that all round them the
building seemed ghostly and enormous, a great creaking barn, as they
stumbled up the shallow steps among its shadows. Besides the noise from
above there was a terrific draught and the night air of the city swept
down upon them in a tide.

“It’s Nanny Broome,” Julia said breathlessly. “Shouting out of a window
I think. What on earth is happening?”

Eustace asked the same question as he appeared suddenly at his door, the
first in the passage down the right wing. He was wrapped in a splendid
silk robe and had paused to brush his hair, so that he loomed up neat
and pink in the gloom.

“What is all this?” he demanded. “Is someone ill? Tim, what are you
doing?” He caught sight of Barry Leach. “Good Heavens! Who is that?”

A sudden gust of violent protest in a deep yet unexpectedly familiar
voice reached them from the open doorway of a room on the opposite side
of the corridor. It was Miss Aicheson. She sounded frightened.

“Be quiet, Mrs. Broome! Hold your damned tongue, woman, and come and
help me with him. He’s dead, I think.”

“Isn’t that Basil’s room?” Eustace did not move but spoke to Timothy.
“Isn’t it?”

“Of course it is. _Shut up!_” The final admonition was addressed to his
captive, who had reared up suddenly like a frightened animal. “Keep
quiet!”

Julia was the first to reach the doorway and she turned on the light
switch just inside the room. It had been in partial darkness, only the
small bedside reading lamp alight. It was the main spare room and a big
one, furnished with Tudor elegance, but now the wall tapestries and the
long silk curtains were blowing out across the room like banners and
Nanny Broome, fully dressed but white-faced and dishevelled, drew her
head in through the window.

“They’re coming. I’d been watching them, so I called. The police are
coming.”

“Good God, women, that’s no good!” Miss Aicheson was struggling to lift
something in the bed, her clumsy hands plucking at it ineffectually.
“Look at this! Come here, somebody. Somebody come at once.”

The new arrivals swept forward in a group and for a dizzy moment stood
staring uncomprehendingly.

Something huge and shining lay among the pillows. It was a pool of
glistening colour, pink and blue and iridescent in the newly blazing
light. At least half of those who came up on it so suddenly were
reminded absurdly of flowers, a parcelled bouquet freshly delivered from
a florist, until in another instant the evidence of their eyes could be
denied no longer and the appalling truth came home to them. They were
looking at Basil Toberman’s face, flushed pinkish purple and with froth
upon his lips, lying inside a plastic bag.

Miss Aicheson was both frantic and embarrassed and for the first time
appeared an old maid. She had been trying to tear the bag and now,
giving up the struggle suddenly, she pulled down the bedclothes and
threw them aside. The heavy polythene sack designed to store a long
dress had been pulled down over Toberman’s head. The surplus length
bunched into folds, had been tucked tightly about his neck and shoulders
and covered by the blankets. Although he had rolled over, and his knees
were drawn up, he was still held securely.

Julia reacted instantly with Timothy a quarter second behind her.

“He’s not breathing!” she said. “Quick.”

He leapt forward and struggled to get an arm behind the heavy shoulders.
“I’ll lift him. You pull the bag.”

In the emergency he forgot his captive completely and as his grip on the
leather sleeve loosened the stranger slid away like a shadow. He made no
sudden rush but melted through the little group and shot out into the
passage. No one noticed him go; the entire attention of everybody
present was focussed on the bed. It was proving a little difficult to
get Toberman out. The damp plastic over his mouth and nostrils tended to
cling and the material was exasperatingly strong and would not tear. It
was several seconds before they had him freed.

“I want to get him on the floor,” Tim said, exerting all his strength to
lift the limp figure out on to the carpet. “If I get above him I can
work on his arms. He’s got to be made to breathe somehow.”

His authoritative tone pulled Nanny Broome together. Her dramatics
ceased and she dropped on to the floor, helping to pull the heavy body
straight. Tim took off his own coat and prepared to give artificial
respiration. Both she and Timothy were sitting on their heels and the
light which hung from the centre of the ceiling shone down directly on
the flushed face of the man between them. Presently she bent forward to
look at him more closely and, putting out her hand, pulled the lower
eyelid down for a moment.

“He’s just like she was,” she said to Timothy, but speaking distinctly
and clearly enough for everyone to hear. “I mean that Miss Saxon. She
looked just like this but without that froth.”

“My God, woman, what will you say next!” Eustace’s voice rose in horror
and then ceased abruptly, as from just outside the door and very close
to them there was a scream, apparently of pain. At the same moment they
all became aware of heavy footsteps flying up the staircase, while from
somewhere far below an unfamiliar male voice was shouting instructions.

Meanwhile Miss Aicheson had recognised the voice.

“Alison!” She scrambled round the bed and went blundering across the
room to the doorway while everyone else save Tim, who was fully
occupied, turned to watch her.

Alison reeled into the room and collapsed in her friend’s clumsy arms.
She was clad in a little-girl dressing gown splattered with pink roses,
and with her hands held over her face and her sleek silver head bowed
she looked pathetic.

“He hit me!” Although her voice was tearful her tone was principally
astounded. “He hit me, Aich! I was just coming out of my room and there
he was before me in the passage. I said, ‘Who are you?’ and he hit me
and ran away.”

“Who dear, who?”

“Him! He’s got away!” The words escaped Julia, and Eustace, who was
dithering midway between both casualties, seized on them.

“Who? Who?” he demanded. “Who was that man in here? What is going on?
How did you all get here fully dressed? What is all this about and
who—Good Heavens! Who are you, sir?”

The final question was addressed to a square man in a tight suit who had
just stepped daintily into the room.

Sergeant Stockwell gave the scene a single comprehensive glance. He was
delighted with himself and confidence oozed from him. He was also
sufficiently human to be rather excited.

“I’m the police, sir,” he said to Eustace. “The lady called to us out of
the window. It’s all right, we’ve got him. Somebody called out up here
just as we came in and he came streaking down right into our arms. It’s
all right, he’s in custody.”

“Who? Who are you talking about? A burglar?” Eustace was roaring
suddenly. His smooth face was damp and he was trembling.

“His name is Leach, sir. At least that is what he’s called. But it’s all
right. You just sit down for a minute while I see the damage.” He thrust
Eustace firmly into the armchair under the window, turned towards the
group on the floor, and dropped down gingerly on one knee. “That’s good
work, son,” he said. “Carry on. I’ll get you some relief first thing.”
He looked at Julia. “I wonder if you’d mind, miss? Slip along and tell
the uniformed man that he’s needed up here urgently. Is there a
telephone on this floor?”

“Yes, in my bedroom, just here.” Eustace bounced up again and seized the
sergeant by the arm. “I want an explanation. This is my house and I
haven’t the faintest idea what is going on. I want information from
you.”

“Yes, sir.” Stockwell was experienced. His manner though gentle was
remarkably firm. “But what you want most, you know, whether you realise
it or not, is a doctor, and if I can catch our police surgeon before he
goes to bed he’ll be here in a couple of minutes or so. He only lives
round the corner. We must do everything we can, mustn’t we? Even if it
doesn’t look very hopeful. Just lead the way to the telephone sir,
please.”

As soon as Julia returned with a constable, Timothy, who was on the
point of exhaustion, prepared to give over to him gratefully. The
newcomer turned out to be a powerful youngster, fully trained and eager
to help, and he stripped off his tunic at once. Meanwhile Nanny Broome
was recovering from her initial panic and now seemed anxious to make up
for any kudos she might have lost, by exerting her personality to the
utmost. She took the policeman’s helmet and placed it on a chair, and
unfolded his tunic to shake it and fold it up again for him.

“It was lack of air, that’s what did it for him poor man,” she said
unnecessarily. “As soon as I saw him I threw up the window and shouted
to you. I’d been watching you all from the landing. You were on my
mind.”

The constable was not listening to her. One look at the patient had
convinced him of the seriousness of the situation and now he went round
behind Tim, rolling up his sleeves, and set about making a careful
take-over without upsetting the rhythm.

Tim extricated himself and got up wearily, to stand holding on to the
bedpost.

He was grey with mingled fatigue and dismay and his forehead was
wrinkled like a hound’s. “He’s like a log,” he said, glancing over at
Julia who was watching them helplessly. “How did he do it?” He bent down
and touched the limp body and drew back again. “Someone has sent for a
doctor, I suppose?”

“I think so. They were telephoning from Eustace’s room as I came past.”
She paused for a moment and the room was quiet save for the steady
pumping. “It’s that dreadful colour. It’s not quite like anything I’ve
ever seen.”

“He’s poisoned himself with his own breath, I think. Something like
that. Keep at it for a minute or two, Constable. I’ll take over when you
want me to.” The constable nodded and continued his exercise, forcing
the air in and out of the clogged lungs. Basil Toberman had ceased to be
a person. His body had a new and terrible personality of its own,
filling the room with its oppressive presence.

The night air streaming through the wide window brought all the far-off
street noises which they had not noticed before, and its chill was mixed
with a different cold which was settling into them as the first shock
passed and they began to think again.

“It’s not possible,” Julia was beginning and was interrupted by Miss
Aicheson who spoke with sudden petulance from the other side of the
room.

“Mrs. Broome, do come here a moment. Miss Alison’s face is marked, see?
Can you help me to take her to her room so we can at least bathe it?”

The new emergency seemed to have driven Basil Toberman completely out of
her mind and she was both tenderly maternal and yet hopelessly shy and
ineffectual in her concern for Alison, who might have been mortally
wounded, she was making such a fuss. The realisation that she had no
idea that anyone else was hurt occurred to both the young people as
Nanny Broome bustled over to help her. She herself had recovered,
almost, and her consequential little wriggle as she walked had returned.
On the other hand Miss Aicheson appeared to be on the verge of going to
pieces; she was at the stage of having to explain.

“I was passing the door on my way to Alison’s room with her book when I
heard you shouting,” she said hoarsely as Mrs. Broome came up. “Why did
you do that? Why did you call out of the window instead of trying to get
the wretched man out of his damned bag?”

Mrs. Broome stared at her and they could see the question presenting
itself for the first time. Her answer was spontaneous and clearly
perfectly true.

“I didn’t know it was a bag,” she said frankly. “I didn’t know what it
was. There wasn’t a lot of light and I wasn’t wearing glasses because I
don’t need them except for reading, and I thought he’d somehow gone like
that after all that drink. All liquid and awful.”

It was one of those frank statements of a familiar if idiotic state of
mind. “He didn’t look human and I lost my head and screamed the place
down. I knew there were police outside and they were real so I called
them.”

Julia ceased to listen to her and turned abruptly to Timothy. Her face
was pale and her eyes enormous.

“Somebody must have done it to him,” she said. “I’ve only just realised
it. He couldn’t have tucked the bedclothes round his own neck after—”
She left the rest of the sentence in the air.

“It’s all right, miss. The man has been taken. We got him downstairs.”
The constable spoke without relaxing his steady work. He was breathless
and the words came out explosively.

Timothy and Julia exchanged startled glances and Timothy protested.

“If you mean that chap we brought up here with us, that’s utterly
impossible.” The constable said nothing but he smiled, and Timothy
looked blank.

“I suppose they’ll assume he did it,” he began.

“If they do we can alibi him.” Julia dismissed the suggestion. “Tim!
Basil mustn’t _die_!”

The young man did not speak at once but looked down at the limp bundle
and away again.

“My God, I hope not,” he said earnestly. “Now we’ll know.”

Sergeant Stockwell had returned bringing the doctor, who proved to be a
slight man who was remarkably self-important.

He walked over to the group on the floor and after a cursory glance went
over to the dressing table to find a suitable resting place for his
splendid leather box.

“Very well,” he said over his shoulder as he unlocked it. “Now I want
everybody out of the room at once please, except the constable. I don’t
care _where_ you go, madam.” He threw the information at Miss Aicheson,
who had opened her mouth but not yet spoken and had been about to ask
him to look at Alison. “Downstairs, upstairs, wherever you like as long
as it’s out of here. I want to try to save this man’s life and what I
need is space and air. You too!” he added to Julia, who was waiting her
turn to move. “Outside everybody. As quickly as you can. Send me up
another man, Sergeant, please, and when your inspector arrives tell him
where I am.”

“Yes sir.” Stockwell glanced at Timothy and his left eyelid flickered.
“I’d like everybody to come downstairs to the big room on the floor
below this one. You lead the way, miss.” They trooped out and the doctor
called after them. “Don’t forget my second constable, Sergeant. This man
is nearly all in.”

“Very well, sir.” Stockwell spoke heartily, adding under his breath as
they reached the passage, “I’ll take one out of the box. They come in
dozens.”

“Alison must have her face bathed. He hit her, you see.”

Miss Aicheson turned in her path to appeal to authority and Nanny
Broome, who was supporting Miss Kinnit, paused hopefully.

Stockwell was interested and as Tim and Julia went on alone they heard
him talking eagerly behind them.

“You mean the man who broke in? He went for her, did he? Did he actually
touch her?”

“He did, dear, didn’t he?”

“Oh yes Aich, of course, I told you. He saw me and hit out. He was
frightened, I think.”

“I expect you were frightened too, miss.” The sergeant aimed to comfort.
“He’s an ugly young brute. Just show me where you were and tell me
exactly what he did.”

Tim and Julia passed out of earshot. The drawing-room door stood open
and the pink light streamed out into the gloom.

“Are you worrying about him?” Julia drew the boy aside for a moment and
they stood close together whispering, leaning over the heavy oak
balustrade which ran round the stairwell.

“No, but they can’t charge him for something he hasn’t done. He’s broken
in and he’s almost certainly responsible for Nan’s coat and for socking
Alison, but they can’t say that he’s to blame for poor old Basil’s
condition. Whatever that may be.”

“No, of course not. I wasn’t accusing you. I was just asking.”

“Oh! blast everybody.” He turned and kissed her ear, pressing his face
for a moment into her warm soft hair. “What did you do with that horror
glove?”

“Hid it. It’s in the oven at the back of the mock fireplace. Aren’t you
going to tell them about it?”

“I’m not going to rush at them with it.”

“Tim! Oh darling! You _can’t_ feel responsible for him.”

“Why not? He’s our age and I caught him.”

“I see.” She was silent for a moment or two and then turned to face him.
“Did you hear Nanny Broome say that Miss Saxon looked like Basil does?”

“Yes I did.”

“What are we going to do?”

“What can we do? Nothing. We’re not in that at all. The Basil business
appears to be entirely the older generation’s headache. That’s the only
thing we do know about it. Come along, sweetie.”

They went on into the drawing room to find Eustace standing on the
hearthrug before the cacti collection. Councillor Cornish was in a chair
on the opposite side of the room, his back was bent, and his long arms
were drooping. He still wore his hideous raincoat and his black hat was
on the floor beside him.

Eustace nailed Tim with relief. “Oh, there you are, my boy!” he said
heartily. “How is Basil? It’s not as bad as it looks, is it? He’ll come
round, I mean? Please God! What a frightful accident to happen! Where
were you when all this was going on?”

“Julia and I were in the well cellar catching that chap who came in
through the broken window. He took the glass out this afternoon,
apparently.”

Eustace’s kindly face became amazed. He had recovered from his initial
shock and his wits were about him again.

“Be discreet, Tim,” he murmured and glanced down the room towards the
Councillor, who was rising as Julia crossed over to him. “I don’t think
it could have occurred quite like that, you know. No human being could
get through those bars for one thing. Doubtless he was about the house
before you found him.”

“He wasn’t.” Tim was gentle but adamant. “We were in the kitchen and he
couldn’t have reached the cellar from the house without disturbing us.
He could get through the bars all right. He could get through a keyhole.
Have you seen him?”

“Yes, I have. He and a plain-clothes detective and a pleasant young man
who seems to be some sort of welfare officer are all in the dining
room.” Eustace hesitated and presently led the younger man into the
window alcove. “It’s Cornish’s boy, apparently,” he said softly.
“There’s been trouble before, I understand.” He sighed. “An
extraordinary coincidence, don’t you think? Just after he was able to
help us this morning? I don’t mind telling you I’m wondering about that
fire. Let’s go over. I don’t know what your little Julia is telling him
about the cellar. We don’t want to raise his hopes, poor man.”

As they came up to the two they caught the tail end of an earnest and
intimate conversation.

“I hoped so hard you’d go to Mr. Luke.” Julia’s voice was as clear as a
bird’s. “I’m so relieved. As soon as I heard he’d sent for Nanny Broome
I knew that you must have.”

“My dear, be quiet,” said the Councillor. He was a gaunt figure in
agony. There was no mistaking his helpless misery. He turned to Timothy
and spoke doggedly.

“You didn’t hurt him,” he said. “I’m most grateful you didn’t hurt him.
Do I understand that he is responsible for something quite terrible
upstairs?”

“No, sir. He has done nothing at all since he got into the house except
talk to me.”

With exactly the same doggedness Tim was disregarding Eustace’s frantic
pressure on his arm. “Julia and I saw the light from his torch when he
got into the well cellar and after that we didn’t let him out of our
sight. When we heard the commotion and came up to investigate I brought
him with me. We went into Basil Toberman’s room together.”

“Basil Toberman? Is that the man who was murdered?”

As the question escaped the Councillor, Eustace made an ineffectual
gesture of rejection and drew a long whistling breath. It was as if he
had been listening for the word and when it came he had no resistance to
offer. He dropped into the nearest chair and sat there like a sack. “Is
he dead?” he demanded.

“I don’t know, Uncle.”

“I didn’t realise there was any doubt of that.” Cornish was both
apologetic and deeply relieved. “I was misled by something I heard one
plain-clothes man tell the other.”

Eustace looked up at Timothy. “It’ll be the end of us if he does die and
there’s any sort of mystery about it,” he said gravely. “That scene at
supper tonight and everything the stupid fellow has been saying to God
knows who on the aeroplane, it’ll all come out. All over the newspapers,
everywhere, and that will be a quarter of the damage. Once the old stag
goes down, you know, the hounds are on him in a pack!” In his mouth the
florid simile sounded natural enough but Tim, who was hypersensitive
concerning the old man’s dignity, snapped at him.

“Then we’ll have to dig in and live it down, because there’s nothing
else we can do.”

“My boy, that’s easy enough to say.” Eustace was an odd mixture of
despair and a sort of relish. “Wait until you see Julia’s father’s
reaction. Wait until it touches you personally.”

“But how is Tim concerned? What is it to do with him? He’s not a
Kinnit.”

Julia’s intervention cut clean across everybody’s private reservation.
She made a terrifying picture of innocent recklessness, interested only
in her love. Both older men turned to her beseechingly but Tim was not
sidetracked. He put an arm round her and jerked her tightly to his side.
“You be quiet,” he said. “We can’t be bothered with all that any more,
darling. We know all we need to know about me. Consider all that settled
and done with. Now, if your father says you’re to wait until you’re
twenty-one we’ll have to wait and that’s an end of it. We shall marry as
soon as we can.”

Councillor Cornish hesitated. He seemed relieved to have found somebody
of his own weight with whom to deal.

“Do I understand that you can give Barry a complete alibi for the—the
happening, whatever it is, upstairs?”

“I am not giving him anything.” Tim had never looked more exactly a
younger edition of the man before him. “I am simply confirming that I
was with him while he was in this house tonight. He will confirm that he
was with Julia and me. We alibi each other. On this occasion his word is
as good as mine. He has an identity. He told me so.”

The Councillor’s eyes flickered under his fierce brows.

“You know about that, do you? I was wondering what I was going to say to
you and this young lady about that.” He hesitated. “Or if I was going to
say anything at all.” There was a pause and presently he spoke with a
rush. “He takes his papers very seriously,” he said, and it was as if he
was speaking of some strange animal for which he was responsible but
which he could never hope to understand. “They are the only aspect of
Law and Order for which he seems to have any respect at all.”

“He takes his identity seriously,” Tim said. “Naturally. It appears to
be all he has.”

It was an extraordinary piece of conversation, momentous and completely
enlightening to each participant and yet, to everybody else, almost
casual.

Cornish looked at Tim anxiously.

“How about yourself, Son?”

Timothy’s glance fell on Julia’s sleek head next his shoulder and
wandered over to Eustace still sitting hunched and old in his chair. At
length he met the Councillor’s gaze.

“I’ve got responsibilities,” he said seriously. “I’m all right.”

“Mr. Timothy Kinnit?” Stockwell, appearing in the doorway, put the
question sharply. He was excited and his habit of swinging on his light
feet had never been more evident.

“Here, Sergeant.”

“I see.” Stockwell appraised him. He was behaving as if he felt the
situation was a little too good to be true. “I have the Superintendent
and my Chief Inspector coming along. They’ll be here in a moment.
Meanwhile I wonder if I could ask you to clear up a little question
which has come up. I understand from my constable upstairs that you
admitted in his presence that it was you who took the man Leach into Mr.
Toberman’s room?”

“That’s right. My fiancée and I took him upstairs with us when we heard
the rumpus. We didn’t know what else to do with him.”

“I see, sir.” Stockwell was approaching a conclusion as it were on
tiptoe. “Then when you took him into Mr. Toberman’s room it was the
first time he’d been there, in your opinion.”

“Of course. Doesn’t he say so?”

“That’s exactly what he does say.”

Tim stood looking at the broad face with the half-triumphant grin on it.

“What’s the matter?” he demanded. “What are you getting at?”

“You’ve given yourself away, young man, haven’t you?” Stockwell, still a
little disbelieving at such good fortune, took the plunge squarely,
nevertheless. “It was you who put Mr. Toberman to bed, wasn’t it? When
he was too drunk to get there himself, let alone into a bag? That’s the
truth, isn’t it?”

The inference, so direct and simple that its enormity became a matter
for complicated investigation and endless legal argument before their
very eyes, burst in the room like a bomb.

There was a long moment of appalled silence, broken in the end by a
voice from the doorway behind the sergeant.

“Oh well, if you’re going to be silly and imagine Mr. Tim did it,” said
Nanny Broome, irritably, “I suppose _I_ shall have to tell the truth.”

As the sergeant turned slowly round to stare at her, Superintendent
Luke’s voice speaking to the constable on duty at the front door floated
up to them from the hall below.




                                   20
                               Eyewitness


The reading lamp on the desk in Eustace’s study cast a small bright pool
of light on the polished wood, and the reflected glow struck upwards on
the faces of the earnest men who stood round it looking down at Mrs.
Broome, who sat in the writing chair.

Luke was there and Campion, Munday, and Stockwell, a solid bunch of
human heads intent and silent save for the occasional murmur of assent.

For once Nanny Broome had no illusions. She was frightened and
completely in the picture. She had no time to be self-conscious.

“We were nearly an hour I should think, me and Mr. Tim, getting him
off.” Her voice was very quiet, almost a whisper, but she was keeping to
the point remarkably well and they were all too experienced to distract
her. “He’d been up and down, up and down, until he drove you crazy. But
he dropped off at last and we tiptoed out into the passage and Mr. Tim
went off downstairs to his young lady, and I waited about for a bit in
case Mr. Basil woke again. I did one or two little jobs. I turned Mr.
Tim’s bed down and looked in on Mr. Eustace to see if he’d got
everything. He was reading; he always does. Miss Alison had finished her
bath; I could hear the waste running. And so I went across the hall to
the other three rooms and saw Miss Julia’s bed was all right. Mrs.
Telpher wanted me to help her close her window which was stuck, and I
did that and went next door to Miss Aich but I didn’t go in.”

“Did you attempt to?” Luke’s tone was carefully lowered to match her own
so that there was no physical interruption, as it were, to the flow of
her thought.

“Not really. I knocked and she said, ‘All right, all right’ in her way,
so I thought: ‘very well.’ And I didn’t disturb her. Then I came back
and listened to Mr. Basil’s door. He was snoring quite regularly so I
went and sat down on the window bench at the end of the passage and
looked out into the street. I sat there for a long time. I often do.
It’s my seat. I’m not in the way because I’m behind the velvet curtains
and the light is up the other end of the passage and doesn’t really
reach to where I am. I sat looking out at the police for a long time. I
thought the plain-clothes chaps were just ordinary men hanging about for
a while but presently, when they kept speaking to the copper in uniform
and looking about as if they weren’t doing it, I guessed who they were
and I wondered if Miss Julia could have telephoned them after all.”

“Why should she?”

“Because I’d had my coat cut when I came in after seeing you, Mr. Luke.
I told her we’d report it in the morning.”

“Very well.” Luke was holding himself on a tight rein. “Then what
happened?”

“Nothing for a long time. I was wondering if I dare go to bed and leave
those two young monkeys up downstairs. You can’t really trust anybody at
that age. It’s not right to ask it of them. Then I heard someone and I
peeked out through the curtains and saw a woman come along and go into
Mr. Basil’s room. I was so angry I could have smacked her because we’d
only just got him to sleep, but there was no noise and after quite a few
minutes she came out again and went back to her room, and I sat
listening with my heart in my mouth because, I thought, ‘Well, if he’s
going to start all his tricks again it will be now that he’ll begin.’
There was no sound, though, and presently I got up and listened at his
door and he was snoring.”

“Did you go in?”

“No. I only opened the door a foot and put my head in. The street lamps
shine into that room. I could see him. He was all right. Sleeping like a
great grampus. Poor, poor chap.”

“Don’t think of that now. What did you do?”

“I went back to my seat and watched the detectives fidgeting about
across the road. A police car came crawling by and one of them went off
after it down the side street. To make his report I expect. There was no
one else at all about. We don’t have many people pass at night although
it’s so crowded in the day time. I might easily have gone to bed then
but I didn’t. I waited to see the detective come back and that was why I
was still there when the person came again. I could hardly believe it
when I saw her, but she went straight into Mr. Basil’s room and she was
there five or six minutes. Then she came out again.”

“The same woman as before?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Are you sure you could identify her?” In his effort to keep his voice
level and in tone Luke exerted so much strength that he set the entire
group trembling.

“Well, one never is absolutely sure, not at night, is one? I wasn’t sure
who it was. I had to satisfy myself. That was why I spoke to her.”

Munday made a little strangled sound deep in his throat and turned it
into a cough whilst everybody else held his breath.

“I said, ‘Is he all right?’ I couldn’t think of anything else to say.
She didn’t jump, she just turned round and came up to me. ‘There are
lights on downstairs,’ she said. I said, ‘I know: it’s all right. How is
Mr. Basil?’” Miraculously Mrs. Broome’s urgent whisper had never
faltered but, now, remembered indignation interfered with her clear
picture. “She said, ‘I never went in.’ The cheek of it! ‘Tim put him to
bed,’ she said. ‘I never went in.’ Of course I didn’t know then what
she’d been up to or I’d have given her something to go on with! . . .”

“Wait.” Luke dropped a hand on her shoulder. “Take a deep breath.” He
was treating her as he treated child witnesses and she responded,
obeying him literally.

“I’ve done that.”

“Right. Now go back. You spoke to her. She answered you. You were sure
who it was. When she said she had not been in, what did you do?”

“I stared. ‘I thought you had,’ I said. ‘Goodnight.’ Then I sat down
again and looked out of the window. She stood there waiting for a second
and I thought she was going to explain, but she didn’t. She just turned
round and went straight back to her room and I stayed where I was, never
dreaming he was in that thing.”

“How long before you looked at him?”

“Several minutes.” It was an appalled whisper. “I sat behind the
curtains getting warmer and warmer. My mind was easy, you see. She
hadn’t woken him the first time and I didn’t expect her to do it on the
second. I sat wondering why she’d gone in and why she’d been so silly as
to try to pretend she hadn’t with me actually sitting there, and I
almost dozed!”

“Never mind. Keep on the ball. When did you look?”

“After about ten minutes. I’d meant to go down and call the children
because they’re only young and enough is enough. When I got up I
listened at Mr. Basil’s door and I couldn’t hear him. It was as silent
as the grave in there. I didn’t think much about it but it did strike me
as extraordinary and I wondered if he was lying awake. I opened the door
very softly and looked in. The reading lamp was on and there he was,
shining like a great pool of water in the bed. I told one of you, didn’t
I? I lost my head and began to scream and because I knew you were all
there outside the window I shouted to you.”

“Because you thought it was a crime?”

“No. Because I wanted help. I don’t think of policemen as always having
to do with crime.”

“The trusting public,” murmured Mr. Campion under his breath as Luke
spoke.

“You’ll have to give us her name,” Luke said gently. “Loyalty and long
service and the respectability of the house, all those things are
important, but not important enough at this point. Who was it Mrs.
Broome? Just the name?”

“It was that old girl who was shouting when I came into the bedroom,
wasn’t it?” Stockwell could contain himself no longer. “What’s her name?
Aicheson? She’s pretending to be absorbed by the attack on the old
sister of the householder.”

Nanny Broome stared at him.

“Oh no,” she said. “Miss Aich wouldn’t hurt a fly and couldn’t without
it getting away! No. It was Mrs. Telpher. I should have guessed that
without seeing her, once I’d noticed the likeness between Mr. Basil’s
colour and Miss Saxon’s.”

“Mrs. Telpher? Who’s she? I haven’t even heard of her!” Stockwell was
already halfway to the door and Mrs. Broome’s unnaturally quiet voice
arrested him.

“When you first came over the road who let you in, young man?” she
demanded. “I’ve been wondering that ever since I came in here. There
wasn’t anybody else. She must have been going out as you came in. She’s
bolted. As soon as I spoke she knew she was found out, see? Even if she
had been able to get back for the bag before I found him I’d have known
she was to blame in the morning when it came out he was dead!”

In the moment of silence while her meaning became clear, there was an
abrupt tap on the door and the little doctor came hurrying in, brusque
and important.

“I’ve an announcement,” he said to nobody in particular. “He’ll do. He’s
just spoken. I don’t think the brain is impaired. The last thing he
remembers is Miss Alison Kinnit bringing him a drink in bed.”

There was a long silence broken by a deep intake of breath by the Chief
Inspector.

Luke shrugged his shoulders. “That has torn it every which way,” he
said. “Now what? I’m glad he’s alive but I wish he’d stopped talking.”

“But it _was_ Mrs. Telpher who gave him the drink. That was the first
thing I noticed.” Nanny Broome was so excited that she was on the verge
of incoherence. “Miss Julia was with me when we saw her bring the glass
upstairs and I mentioned it. I said, ‘She must have half a tumbler of
neat spirit there.’” She paused and turned to Luke again with one of the
sudden outbursts of utter frankness which were her most alarming
characteristics. “That was the real reason why I went to her room when
she caught me to help with the window. She was taking a long woolly
dress out of a plastic bag then. I wanted to see if she really had drunk
all that stuff. It’s not only that I’m inquisitive, but if I’m to look
after the house I must know what’s going on.”

“And she hadn’t?” Luke pounced on the thread before it got away.

“No. There it was untouched on the dressing table. She’d put a tissue
over it but you couldn’t miss it, it was smelling the place out. Later
on, when I saw her taking it in to Mr. Basil, I guessed what she was up
to. ‘You’re going to make sure he passes right out so there won’t be any
more disturbances tonight,’ I thought. ‘You selfish thing! Serve you
right if he gets delirium and the whole place turns into a madhouse.’ I
remember his Papa, you see.”

Luke ignored the historical reference.

“Can you swear on oath it was Mrs. Telpher you saw in the passage and
not Miss Alison Kinnit? They’re very alike.”

“Of course they’re alike! That’s what muddled Mr. Basil in the state he
was in. All the Kinnits are alike; the family flavour is very strong.
Their natures are alike. When she tried to put the whole thing on to Mr.
Tim she was exactly like any other Kinnit. I thought that at the time.”

“_When?_” Luke leapt on the flaw. “When you were speaking to Mrs.
Telpher in the passage you didn’t know that anything had happened to Mr.
Toberman.”

Nanny Broome’s innate honesty shone through the clouds of wool.

“No, but as soon as I saw Mr. Basil all glistening like that I realised
that whatever had happened to him it must be Mrs. Telpher who’d done it,
and that she’d clearly meant to put the blame on Tim. _That’s why I
screamed and called the police._ I’m not very easily upset, you know. I
don’t scream for nothing. I usually know what I’m doing. Where would Tim
and I be now, let me ask you, if I hadn’t screamed and you weren’t all
here but it had been left to the family to decide what story to tell? I
knew she’d have to run because I’d spoken to her and she knew I knew
who’d been into Mr. Basil’s room. She’s got away. Good riddance! I’ve
been thinking she would if I gave her time enough.”

“You be careful what you’re saying, missus!” Munday intervened despite
himself. “The lady hasn’t a chance of getting far. Meanwhile, have you
ever heard of an Accessory after the Fact?”

“Only in tales,” said Mrs. Broome contemptuously. “Catch her if you
think you can, but don’t bring her here near my kiddiewiddies!”

“Who are they?” Munday was beginning with interest, but Luke signalled
to him hastily.

“Forget it,” he muttered. “We’ve only got one life. Sergeant Stockwell,
you ought to have noticed the lady at the door. You put out the call.
Wait a minute. She has a child at St. Joseph’s. You might try there
first. I think we can take it that she’s not normal. It’s the old
psychiatric stuff. There’ll be no very definite motive. I mean, and
. . .”

“I rather think there is, you know.” Mr. Campion, who had taken no part
in the proceedings and who had been forgotten by everybody, now ventured
to intervene a trifle apologetically.

“She was the only person who had sufficient motive, or so it seemed to
me. Fear is the only adequate spur for that sort of semi-impulsive act,
don’t you think? Fear of loss. Fear of trouble. Fear of unbearable
discovery. Especially when backed by the glimpse of definite gain.”

Luke stared at him.

“‘Oh my prophetic soul,’ your telegram!” he said. “I might have known!
She is not Mrs. Telpher, I suppose?”

“Oh, but she is.” Mr. Campion appeared unhappy. “That is her true name
and she is the Kinnit niece. The telegram was a reply to a routine
enquiry I made about her through the Petersen agency in Jo’burg.” He
paused, looking awkward. “It’s one of those sad, silly, _ordinary_
explanations which lie behind most criminal acts,” he went on at last.
“I suppose her secret is the most usual one in the world and she hid it
successfully from everybody except Basil Toberman, who is the kind of
man who spends his life making sure he is not deceived on that
particular point.”

Luke’s eyebrows rose to peaks.

“Money?”

Mr. Campion nodded. “I’m afraid so. She simply isn’t rich. It is as easy
as that. She isn’t even badly off, hard up or in straitened
circumstances. She is simply not rich. She never has been rich. The
deceased Telpher was an accountant but not a financier.”

“But the Kinnit family must have known this?”

“Why should they? There are people who make a habit of keeping an eye on
the financial positions of their various relatives, but with others, you
know, complete ignorance on the subject is almost a cult. Mrs. Telpher
was a distant relative. Distant in miles. The Kinnits were aware of her
but not at all curious about her. How the idea that she was extremely
wealthy was implanted in their minds originally I do not know. It may
have started with some trifling mistake, or be based merely on the
simple fact that they are extremely wealthy and she had never let them
know that she was not. At any rate, when she had to come to London she
found it very easy to make use of them. Her success lay in the fact that
she understood them so well. They are all alike. Cold, incurious,
comfort-loving, and deeply respectful towards money, and yet in an odd
inhuman way hospitable and aware of the duties of hospitality.”

“That woman only lives for one thing and that’s cash,” said Mrs. Broome
unexpectedly. “If she hasn’t got a fortune already her main reason for
coming here was to make sure of an inheritance when the time came. You
can be sure of that! Don’t forget she’s the only Kinnit relative except
for Mr. Tim and she probably thought he ought not to count, being merely
adopted. Her idea was to oust him, take it from me. Meantime, here she
got her living free, and Miss Saxon’s.”

This prosaic thought, which had been in the minds of everybody present,
passed entirely without comment.

Luke was still waiting for Mr. Campion, who finished his interrupted
statement.

“The one great risk she took never materialised,” he said. “No one
insisted on visiting the child. Knowing the family she did not think
they would.”

“I insisted and was soon told where I got off!” the irrepressible Mrs.
Broome put in tartly. “The poor little mite was ‘far too ill to see
strangers! Doctors’ orders.’ As if a visit from me would hurt a kiddie!”

Luke flapped a silencing hand at her and continued to watch his friend.
“Isn’t there a child?”

“Oh, yes, there’s a child.” Mr. Campion spoke sadly. “And its condition
is just as she said—silent, incurable, unconscious. A heart-rending
sight, too terrible for anyone very close to sit and watch for long.
Mrs. Telpher is not very close. She is the governess. She was driving
when the accident occurred. She was sent by her employers to London with
the child and her nurse, Miss Saxon, when every other hope of cure had
failed. The child’s name is Maria Van der Graff. She is registered under
it at the hospital. Anyone could have discovered it had they thought to
ask.”

The story struck the depressingly familiar note with which true stories
ring in the tired ears of experienced policemen. No one queried it. It
was in the classic pattern of human weakness, mean and embarrassing and
sad. The second note, the high alarum, not so familiar and always
important since it indicates the paramount sin in Man’s private
calendar, took most of them by surprise although they had been well
prepared.

“Attempted murder,” said Luke. “She did it to avoid discovery and the
failure of her plans, and when she saw she was caught she made a
definite attempt to incriminate the young man who stood between her and
an inheritance. That covers the present charge.” He hesitated and they
waited, the same thought in every mind.

Mrs. Broome’s eyes met Luke’s.

“If Miss Saxon was the nursie, that was why she was so fond of the
kiddie and why she tried to tell me about the diamonds.”

“The _diamonds_?” He was as amazed as if she had attempted to introduce
elephants.

“The diamonds in the safe deposit,” said Mrs. Broome placidly. “In the
beginning, when Mr. Eustace wrote in his fussy way and told Mrs. Telpher
not to bring a lot of jewellery to the house but to put it in a safe
deposit, he put an idea in her head. She invented some diamonds because
she saw that he expected her to have some with her, and pretended she’d
put them under lock and key. When she mentioned them in front of me Miss
Saxon told me—in front of her—that they were so big that she wouldn’t
have believed they were real if she hadn’t known. Well, she did know,
didn’t she? If they were in service together she’d have known Mrs.
Telpher wasn’t wealthy. She knew the diamonds weren’t real and probably
weren’t even there. She was on the verge of telling me the joke. We were
getting far too friendly, Miss Saxon and me; that was why _she_ had to
have her head put in a bag! It was aspirin, not drink, that was used
_that_ time I expect!”

“Quiet!” Luke’s big hand thumping on the desk silenced her. “You open
your mouth once more, my girl, and it’s you and no one else who’ll be
inside! Doctor, suppose the gentleman upstairs had died what would the
autopsy have shown?”

The doctor glanced over at him in astonishment.

“Oh, I don’t think there would have been any need for an autopsy,
Superintendent. It was perfectly clear what had happened to him.”

“Yes, I know, sir. It’s a hypothetical question. What would have been
the finding if the man had died and the bag been removed and hidden?”

“If I hadn’t known? If I had simply been presented with the corpse and
not told about the bag?”

“That’s it, sir.”

The little man hesitated. “Well, I don’t know,” he said irritably. “How
can I know? There might be any sort of condition which could account for
death. We’re a bit more complex inside even than a television set,
Superintendent. I certainly shouldn’t be able to tell that he had
suffocated, if that’s what you mean.”

“You wouldn’t?”

“No. There might be a slight increase in the carbon monoxide in the
blood but—no, I couldn’t be expected to diagnose suffocation. There’d
be no foreign matter in the mouth or windpipe, no bruising, no marks of
any kind. No, I should not have thought of suffocation. Fortunately it
doesn’t arise.”

“Exactly,” said Luke and scowled at Mrs. Broome. “And it mustn’t,” he
said, “or we’ll all be in the bag! Don’t you forget it! Chief Inspector,
has your sergeant gone to put out that call? Where will you take Leach?”

“Ebbfield, I think,” Munday said seriously. “We’ll sort out the charges
down there on the home ground, don’t you agree?”

Luke’s reply was forestalled by a knock on the door, and the Chief
Inspector, who was nearest it, pulled it open to reveal a sleepy-eyed,
yet harassed looking young man whom he welcomed with relief. There was a
hasty conference on the mat whilst the noises from the excited house
swept in to them from the well of the staircase. After a moment or so
the Chief Inspector turned back into the room and leant across the table
to Luke.

“There’s a question of a glove which Leach was thought to have with him.
It’s missing.”

The doctor snorted with impatience but the Superintendent was very
interested. He turned to Mrs. Broome.

“You said you had your coat cut tonight. What did you mean?”

She caught her breath. “Oh, I wasn’t going to think about that until the
morning!”

Luke’s bright teeth flashed in his dark face and the look he gave her
was positively affectionate.

“In case you got frightened of the dark, I suppose? You’ll do! Run along
with the gentleman at the door. He’s not a policeman, he’s a probation
officer. Tell him everything he wants to know. He’s trying to help
someone before they break his heart for him, poor chap.”

Mrs. Broome had the final word. She was bustling to the doorway when it
occurred to her and she looked back.

“You could have a very nice nature if you weren’t so cheeky,” she said
and went out, Munday after her.

Charlie Luke, reduced to half-pint size, flushed and turned sharply on
the doctor, who was making noises. “Now, sir?”

“I want to get that man in a nursing home.” The statement was
aggressive. “He won’t die now but he’s still ill. He’s still confused.
Some of it may be alcohol, you understand. Professional nursing at this
stage is essential.”

Luke stepped back.

“Excellent idea,” he said briskly. “As soon as possible. You make the
arrangements and as soon as the Chief Inspector returns he will make
provision for a preliminary statement. Nothing detailed. Just enough to
take us through the next phase. We’ve got to charge the lady when we
find her, you see.”

“Of course.” The doctor was satisfied and busy. “Fortunately there’s a
telephone in Mr. Eustace Kinnit’s bedroom.”

Luke smiled at him without irony. “Fortunate indeed, sir,” he said
cheerfully and turned to Mr. Campion as the man hurried off leaving the
door open.

“It could be a long trial, you know,” he said presently. “She might get
away with it on the medico’s evidence of Toberman’s first waking words.
I can just hear Sir Cunningham cross-examining Mrs. Broome about what
she saw on the landing, can’t you? That’ll be murder, if you like!”

Mr. Campion was still standing by the table, looking into the limpid
mahogany.

“The world is certainly going to hear about the Kinnit family and their
governesses, alas!” he said at last. “No one on earth can prevent that
now, I’m afraid. There’ll be no more hushing up Miss Thyrza. She’s out
of the grave. She wins after all.”

“Murder doesn’t hush,” Luke had moved over to the doorway. “My old
copy-book was dead right. _Murder will out._ There’s something damn
funny about it. The desire to pinpoint the blame gets out of the
intellect and into the blood. I’ve known murderers give themselves away
rather than leave it a mystery!”

Mr. Campion was thinking along other lines.

“It’s very odd how the word ‘governess’ is a guilty one in this
particular history,” he remarked. “Just before we came in here I had an
account from Julia of the row in the kitchen tonight. Apparently Eustace
Kinnit’s father tried to suppress the truth about a governess. Eustace
himself went to considerable lengths to prevent the word ‘Kinnit’ and
the word ‘governess’ appearing together. Mrs. Telpher was responsible
for a fearful accident whilst acting as governess and she came over
here, deceiving her relatives and bringing an assistant whom she said,
quite unnecessarily, was a governess. To the Kinnits it has become an
evil word which is always accompanied by trouble. Miss Thyrza is not so
much a ghost as their minds playing the goat.”

Luke laughed briefly. “I know which one frightens me the most!” he said.
“Mr. Eustace and Miss Alison are going to need their adopted boy’s
support. It’s a merciful thing he has a sound young woman.”

He went out into the corridor and when Mr. Campion joined him he was
standing in the shadow by the balustrade.

They paused together, looking down at the curious scene which the old
house presented with its open doors and lighted alcoves. It was strongly
reminiscent of one of the early Netherlandish mystery paintings; little
bright unrelated groups were set about in the dark and tortuous
background of the carved staircase, and its several stages and
galleries.

From where they stood they had a foreshortened view of a knot of men
below in the hall. Munday was speaking to a constable and a
plain-clothes man down there while a dejected black wand, bent like a
question mark, wavered between them like some spineless overgrown plant.

On the next floor, through the open doorway of the drawing room, they
could see Julia talking to Eustace. She appeared to be comforting or
reassuring him, for he was leaning back in one of the pink sofas looking
up at her while she talked, emphasising her words with little gestures.
It was a very clear scene, the colours as vivid as if they were painted
on glass.

On the upper floor, in the corridor to their right, Mrs. Broome was
showing her coat to the probation officer. She had carried it to the
baluster rail to catch the light from the candelabra, and the purple
folds gleamed rich and warm out of the shadow. Miss Aicheson, wearing a
plaid dressing gown and carrying a tray with a white jug and a cup upon
it, was coming up the kitchen staircase, and opposite them, across the
well, the doctor, stepping out of Eustace’s bedroom, paused a moment to
look across at Luke and give an affirmative sign.

Mr. Campion was comforted. It was a picture of beginnings, he thought.
Half a dozen startings: new chapters, new ties, new associations. They
were all springing out of the story he had been following, like a spray
of plumes in a renaissance pattern springs up from a complete and
apparently final feather.

The murmur of voices from the corridor directly below them caught his
attention. Luke was already listening. Councillor Cornish was talking to
Timothy.

“It was very good of you and I know how you felt,” he was saying
earnestly. “But if you do happen to know where this glove weapon is I
think we’d better go and pick it up and let the police have it. We’re
not the judges, you see. That’s one of the very few things I’ve learned
in the last twenty years. We’re simply not omniscient. That seems to me
to be the whole difficulty. We haven’t got all the data, any of us. When
we do gang up and make a concerted effort to try to get it, and in a
trial of justice, that’s the thing which becomes most apparent. As I see
it now, anything we suppress may turn out to be the one thing absolutely
vital to the lad’s safety or salvation. We have absolutely no sure way
of telling, that I can see. Life is not predictable.”

“I wasn’t trying to hide anything.” Timothy’s young voice, which
possessed so much the timbre of the other, was vehement. “I was merely
not rushing at them with it. I didn’t want to be the one who damned him,
that was all.”

“Oh, my boy, don’t I know!” The older voice was heartfelt. “That state
of mind has dogged me all my life!”

There was a long pause before a laugh, curiously happy, floated up to
the two men by the banisters.

“We may not see much of each other,” the Councillor was saying as he and
his companion began to move away towards the lower floor, and his voice
grew fainter and fainter. “You’re going to have your hands full with
your commitments here, I can see that. But now that we have an
opportunity there is just one thing I wanted to say to you. It—er—it
concerns my first wife. She was just an ordinary London girl, you know.
Very sweet, very brave, very gay, but when she smiled suddenly, when you
caught her unawares, she was so _beautiful_ . . .”

The sound faded into a murmur and was lost in the general noises of the
busy household.

                                THE END
                           TRANSCRIBER NOTES

    Misspelled words and printer errors have been corrected. Where
    multiple spellings occur, majority use has been employed.

    Punctuation has been maintained except where obvious printer
    errors occur.

[The end of _The China Governess_ by Margery Allingham]
