=* A Distributed Proofreaders Canada eBook *=

This eBook is made available at no cost and with very few restrictions.
These restrictions apply only if (1) you make a change in the eBook
(other than alteration for different display devices), or (2) you are
making commercial use of the eBook. If either of these conditions
applies, please contact a https://www.fadedpage.com administrator before
proceeding. Thousands more FREE eBooks are available at
https://www.fadedpage.com.

This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright
in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your country's
copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT
DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.

_Title:_ Traitor's Purse
_Date of first publication:_ 1941
_Author:_ Margery Allingham (1904-1966)
_Date first posted:_ June 8, 2026
_Date last updated:_ June 8, 2026
Faded Page eBook #20260614

This eBook was produced by: Al Haines, Cindy Beyer & the online
Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at https://www.pgdpcanada.net

This file was produced from images generously made available by Internet
Archive/Lending Library.







                          [Cover Illustration]




                            TRAITOR’S PURSE

    The man in the hospital bed didn’t feel like a criminal, yet he
    heard the nurse saying he had killed a policeman. From behind
    the curtain of his memory, only one fact stood out. He had to do
    something that was vitally urgent to the fate of the world. He
    must go out and go . . . somewhere . . . even if he had to kill
    every policeman who stood in his way.















                            Traitor’s  Purse


                           Margery  Allingham


                                PARAGON
                             CHIVERS  PRESS
                                  BATH




                         Copyright © 1940, 1941
                          by Margery Allingham




                            Traitor’s Purse


                                   I

The muttering was indistinct. It crept down the dark ward, forcing
itself upon the man who lay in the patch of light at the far end of the
vast room.

It was a pleasant muttering. It made a reassuring undercurrent below the
worry, that terrifying anxiety which was thrusting icy fingers deep into
his diaphragm.

He tried to concentrate on the muttering. Mercifully it was
recognizable. There were two distinct voices and when he could catch
them the words meant something. That was good. That was hopeful.

In a little while the words might start connecting and then, please God,
he would learn something and this appalling fear would recede.

From where he lay he could just see a wedge of polished floor, a section
of a neat empty bed, and a tall shrouded window, fading into complete
darkness at the top where the shaded light over his own head was too
fault to reach it. All these were entirely unfamiliar. He was not even
sure that he was in a hospital. That was part of the whole situation. He
knew what a hospital was; that was comforting. They were large grey
buildings, made grimly gay by enormous posters announcing scarifying
debts. The recollection of those placards cheered him up. He could still
read; he was sure of that. Sometimes one couldn’t. Sometimes on these
occasions one could only recognize spoken words. That was an odd piece
of information to remember now. His mind was clear enough as far as it
went . . . as far as it went.

He concentrated on the muttering. It was a long way away. They must be
just outside the farther door up there in the darkness. The woman was a
nurse, of course. The discovery delighted him foolishly. He was getting
on. At any moment now other obvious things must occur to him.

He had no idea who the man was, but his rumble was human and friendly.
He settled himself to listen.

“I shan’t question him myself, you know.” He heard the man’s words with
mild interest.

“I daresay not.” She sounded acid. “It’s very serious indeed. I wonder
they left him alone with us here. It’s not very nice.”

“There’s no need to worry about that, Miss.” The rumble was aggrieved.
“I’d like a quid for every one I’ve handled. He’ll be quiet enough,
you’ll see. Probably he won’t even remember what’s happened—or he’ll
say he doesn’t until he’s seen a lawyer. They’re like that nowadays, up
to anything.”

The man in bed lay very still. The muttering had ceased to be so
comforting. He forgot to be glad that it was coherent. He listened
avidly.

“They’ll hang him, I suppose?” said the nurse.

“Bound to, Miss.” The man was both apologetic and definite. “It was one
of us, you see, so there’s no way of getting out of it. Once a man slugs
an officer of police he’s for it. It’s a necessary precaution for the
safety of the public,” he added, not without satisfaction. “This chap
had all that money on him, too. That’ll take a bit of explaining on its
own.”

“All I can say it’s very unpleasant.” The nurse crackled a little after
she had spoken and the man in bed thought she was coming in. He closed
his eyes and lay rigid. There were no footsteps, and presently she spoke
again.

“It seems very strange here without any patients,” she said and laughed
a little unnaturally, as if she recognized the ghostliness of the great
empty wards. “We’re only a skeleton staff left behind to deal with
emergencies like this. We’re the one hospital in the town cleared for
action in case of anything. All our regulars have been evacuated. I
don’t know how they’re all getting on in the country, I’m sure.”

“My missus and the kids are in the country,” said the policeman
unexpectedly. “It keeps me short and she’s lonely. . . .” His voice died
away into a murmur of confidence and at the other end of the ward the
man in bed opened his eyes again.

Slugging a policeman. He knew what that meant, whatever condition his
mind was in. That was pretty serious. It was so serious that it made him
sweat.

He had had nightmares like that and he’d known policemen. Now he came to
consider the matter it seemed to him that he had known policemen very
well and had liked them.

What on earth had happened to him? The bobby outside had just said that
he might not remember anything about it. Well, he didn’t. He didn’t
remember anything about anything. That was the anxiety, or part of it.
He did not remember anything at all. There was only that secret worry,
that gnawing, fidgeting, terrifying anxiety, beyond any consideration of
his personal safety; that awful half-recollected responsibility about
fifteen. Fifteen. He had no idea what the figure signified. That part
had gone completely. But it was both urgent and vital: he did know that.
It towered over the rest of his difficulties, a great dim spirit of
disaster.

Now, to add to everything else, he was going to be hanged for slugging a
policeman. He might have slugged him too; that was the devil of it.
Anyhow, there was that fool bobby talking to a nurse about it as if it
were a foregone conclusion. They expected him to call in a solicitor,
did they? A fine chance he had of helping any solicitor to make a case,
he who didn’t even know his own name!

Moved by indignation and the odd singleness of purpose symptomatic of
his condition, he got out of bed.

He moved very quickly and naturally, still partly wrapped in the
shrouding comfort of semi-consciousness, and therefore made no noise at
all.

He chose the nearest door, since even he recognized the prudence of
avoiding the mutterers, and his bare feet were silent on the tiles of
the passage. It was a wide corridor, clean and yet ill lit because the
bulbs were shaded heavily and cast separate circles of light on the
gleaming floor.

It was in one of these circles that he saw the hairpin. He stooped to
pick it up mechanically and the wave of dull pain which swept over him
as he bent down frightened him. This was a fine kettle of fish. What was
going to happen now? He was going to pass out, he supposed, and be
dragged back and hanged for slugging a policeman. God Almighty, what a
position!

The tiles, striking cold on his bare soles, pulled him together a
little, and he became aware for the first time that he was undressed and
the coarse hospital pyjamas were his only covering.

He glanced at the row of shining doors on his left. At any moment one of
these might open and Authority emerge. It would be a dreadful
supercilious Authority, too, properly clothed and antipathetic.

It was a real nightmare. This idea seemed feasible and he seized on it
gratefully. The conviction relieved him of a great deal of worry. For
one thing, it did not matter so much that his brain was so unreliable.

All the same, even in dreams certain problems are urgent and it was
obvious that some sort of clothes were imperative if he were to have a
dog’s chance with the lurking Authority behind those shining doors.

He glanced round him anxiously. The walls were as bare as an empty plate
save for the fire-buckets, and the alcove beneath that crimson row
escaped him until he was upon it, and then the glimpse of the red-rimmed
glass case within jerked him to a standstill. He stood before the
cupboard transfixed. There was the usual paraphernalia inside. A black
oilskin coat hung at the back and the toes of a pair of thigh-boots
showed just beneath it, while the hose was draped round the ensemble in
neat heraldic festoons.

The man in pyjamas ignored the invitation printed on the enamelled plate
requiring him to break the glass. Instead he concentrated on the keyhole
in the smooth red wood. When he lifted his hand to touch it he
rediscovered the hairpin and a warmth of satisfaction spread over him.
So it was one of those merciful dreams in which things came out all
right—that was, if it worked.

He had no time to speculate on his own somewhat peculiar
accomplishments. The bent wire flicked over the lock easily, as if he
had done it a hundred times. The absence of oilskin trousers bothered
him, but the boots were tremendous. They came well up over his thighs
and the coat had a belt which took off and could be slipped through the
boot-loops. The sou’-wester cap which fell out of the ensemble struck
him as amusing, but he put it on and buttoned the coat up to his throat
with deep relief.

Any incongruity in the costume did not occur to him. He was still moving
with the simple directness of emergency. There was danger behind him and
something tremendously important ahead. He was going away from the one
and approaching the other. It appeared both sensible and elementary.

The row of doors still remained closed. There was no sound anywhere and
no draught. The corridor was blank and quiet, but all the same it
breathed. It was alive. He had no illusions about that. Wherever he was,
whoever he was, drunk, mental, or dreaming, he was still wide awake
enough to be able to tell a live building from an empty one. There were
people about all right.

The door of the case imperfectly closed swung open again and startled
him as it touched him. That was no good. That would give him away at
once. If that crackling nurse put her head out of the ward that would be
the first thing her pince-nez would light on. He thrust it back into its
place, using far more force than he had intended. The thin glass
splintered easily. The gentle clatter it made on the tiles was almost
musical, but the automatic bell, which he had failed to notice above the
case, was a different matter.

It screamed at him, sending every nerve in his body tingling to the
roots of his hair. It bellowed. It raved. It shrieked, tremblingly
hysterical in the night, and from every side, above him, and beneath
him, other bells echoed it in a monstrous cacophony of alarum.


                                   II

The building was alive all right. His senses had not deserted him. Doors
swung open, rushing feet swept down on him, cries, sharp demands for
information, raised anxious voices, they whirled round his head like
bees from an overturned hive.

He ran for it, with his oilskin coat flapping and scraping round his
hampered limbs. He passed the lift cages and sped on to the staircase.
As he reached the second landing he collided with an elderly man in a
white coat, who caught his sleeve.

“Can’t wait, sir.” The words escaped him as he wrenched himself free.
“Look after your patients,” he shouted as an afterthought as he took on
the next flight.

Meanwhile the blessed bells continued. Their shrill clamour was
inspiring. If only they kept it up until he made the ground.

He arrived in the main entrance hall sooner than he expected. Here too
there was wild excitement. Someone had lowered most of the lights so
that the large double doors could be thrown open, and a porter was
exhorting everyone in sergeant-major tones to go quietly.

The man in the oilskins plunged across the tiled floor, guided
instinctively by the nearest blast of cold air. A nurse stepped aside
for him and a doctor touched his shoulder.

“Where is it, fireman?”

“Round the back. No danger. Keep them quiet. No danger at all.” He
succeeded in sounding wonderfully authoritative, he noticed. He had
almost reached the threshold of the emergency doors when a girl slipped
in front of him. As he dodged round her she spoke quietly.

“Is it by the gate?” she inquired idiotically.

He glanced at her over his shoulder and received a momentary impression
of a heart-shaped face and disconcertingly intelligent brown eyes.

“The fire’s at the back. Miss. Nothing serious,” he said briefly and
passed on.

It was a completely meaningless encounter and the girl might well have
been half-witted for all he knew, but she left an uncomfortable doubt in
his mind and he dived out into the darkness eagerly.

It was not a pitch-black night. There was a moon behind the thin
coverlet of clouds and, as soon as his eyes became accustomed to the
change, the shadowy greyness of the darkened town became fairly
negotiable.

The scene meant nothing to him. He was in a large semicircular drive in
which a dozen cars were parked, while beyond roofs and spires rose up in
velvet silhouette against the lighter sky.

He took the nearest car. It seemed the wisest thing to do at the time,
although he had some difficulty in managing the controls, hampered as he
was by the mighty boots. Still, the little runabout started and he took
her gently down the slope to the open gates. He turned east when he
reached the high road, mainly because it seemed more likely to be lucky
than the other direction, and, treading hard on the accelerator, he
rattled on down the dim ribbon of asphalt which was just visible in
front of his single hooded headlight.

He had picked a terrible car. The discovery was particularly
disconcerting because he fancied he was in the habit of driving
something different altogether. Not only was this uncomfortable little
machine cramped, but the steering was alarming with a full turn play on
the wheel at least, while somewhere behind him a suggestive clinking was
growing noticeably louder.

The road, which was broad and lined with dim houses set back behind
overgrown shrubberies, was quite new to him. It might have been any road
in England for all he knew. There was no traffic and no street lamps. He
drove anxiously, coaxing the unresponsive machine to further effort. Now
it was a real nightmare, the familiar kind, in which one struggles down
a dark tunnel with terror behind one and feet which become more and more
laden at every step.

He had travelled half a mile or so before he met another vehicle and it
was with relief that he saw a pair of darkened sidelights swaying down
the road towards him. They turned out to belong to a bus. The interior
was darkened, but as it came up with him he caught a glimpse of the dim
number over the cab. It was a 15. The sight jolted him and for an
instant recollection rushed at him in a great warm sweep of bright
colours, only to recede again, leaving him desperate. Something was
frighteningly urgent and important. There was something he had to do
instantly and the responsibility concerned was tremendous.

For a moment he had had it almost within his brain’s grasp and yet now
it was all gone again, all lost. What he did know was bad enough, he
recollected with something of a shock. The police were after him,
apparently for murder. The clanking at the back of the car ceased to be
ominous and became downright sinister. At any moment now the big-end
must go and he would find himself stranded in the suburbs of an unknown
town where his present costume would damn him the instant he was seen.

It was at this point that he became aware of the car behind. There was
no way of telling its size or make, for its single eye was as dim and
downcast as his own. He pulled in a little to allow it to pass, but the
driver behind made no attempt to overtake and appeared to be content to
keep at a distance of twenty-five yards or so. This was definitely
alarming.

He estimated that he was doing a little over forty miles an hour at the
outside, although from the way his machine was heaving and rolling her
speed might well have been nearing three figures. Cautiously he
slackened speed a trifle. The car behind slowed also and at the same
time the death-rattle in his own back axle increased noticeably.

A smile of pure amusement twisted the mouth of the thin man in the
oilskins. This was so disastrous that it was ridiculous. This was
attempted cat burglary on roller-skates. The odds against him were
immeasurably too great. He had no chance even to run for it in these
colossal boots.

A side turning yawning in the darkness on his left decided him and he
swung round into it for a final spurt. The driver behind him overshot
the corner and a flicker of hope flashed through his mind, but before he
had reached the next road junction the following car was back on his
trail again.

The open country took him by surprise. The hospital must have been
nearer the outskirts of the town than he had imagined. It was coming
now, he supposed as he drove down a tunnel of bare trees into the lonely
darkness beyond. They must make their arrest at any moment now, and he
prepared himself for them to shoot past him and stop. But meanwhile
there seemed no point in pulling himself and he continued on through
deeply wooded country with his silent attendant just behind him.

As the minutes passed his resignation gave place to nervous irritation
and he drove squarely in the middle of the road. Whenever a convenient
turning presented itself he took it, but always his companion followed
him. If he eluded the car for a moment or so by some adroit piece of
driving, invariably it put on speed and caught up with him again.

He seemed to travel for hours, even for weeks. It was bitterly cold and
his mind, which was in darkness save for the one single pin-point of
illumination which was the immediate present, appeared to him for the
first time as a machine independent of himself and about as
unsatisfactory as the car he drove.

The dreadful thudding between the back wheels was now deafening. His
speed had slackened considerably also and the engine was missing on at
least one cylinder. A sudden dip in the road was his undoing. He hit the
watersplash at the bottom without seeing it and a wall of spray rose up
over him, rushed in through the radiator and obscured the windscreen The
engine coughed apologetically and died.

He sat where he was. After the crashing of the big-end the silence was
sweet but uncanny. He waited. Nothing happened.

The clouds had cleared a little and in the moonlight he could see on
either side of him low hedges, and beyond, the dark spikes of an osier
bed. There was not a breath of wind, not a rustle. It was as still and
cold as the bottom of the sea.

He turned his head cautiously and peered through the rear window. The
other car was in its familiar place, a few yards behind him. It too was
stationary and there was no telling who sat behind that single downcast
headlamp.

Then, as he watched it, the car began to move. Very slowly it crawled
down the road behind him, turned its long sleek body gently to one side,
and, entering the water so quietly that there was hardly a ripple, it
came up close to him so that the driving seat was on a level with his
own.


                                  III

The side windows of the two cars slid down simultaneously and the man in
the fireman’s coat braced himself to meet whatever was coming.

“Would you care for a lift by any chance?”

The question, put with a certain grave politeness, came quietly out of
the darkness in a clear young voice which might have belonged to some
nice child.

“Do you know where you are? We’re relying on you. I hope you realize
that.”

The second voice, which was elderly and querulous besides being
practically in his ear, startled half the life out of him, it was so
close.

“Driving at night is difficult at the best of times,” it rambled on
hollowly, “and night comes so early this time of year. I must have
hunted over this country as a young man, but that’s many years ago.
Many. I don’t know what road we’re on at all.”

After a moment’s incredulous silence the explanation of this apparent
hallucination occurred to the fugitive with a second shock. Whoever
these good people were they either knew him or his car very well indeed.
He replied cautiously, relying on his voice to identify him or not as
the case might be.

“I’m afraid this car has died,” he said clearly and waited for their
reaction.

“With a beautiful smile on its bonnet, no doubt.” The young voice
sounded gently reproachful. “Do you mind getting in the back? Mr
Anscombe is in the front with me. We shall all be rather late for
dinner, I’m afraid, and I’ve phoned Lee once. Leave George’s car where
it is.”

The man who could not remember pricked up his ears. There had been
definitely a warning emphasis on the Christian name.

“Our George has a depraved taste in machinery,” he remarked tentatively
as he clambered out of the farther door and came round to the back of
the second car. When he entered the warm darkness of the limousine the
girl gave him the hint for which he had asked.

“It’s not George’s taste, poor child. It’s his pocket,” she said firmly.
“Er—all undergraduates are a little trusting when confronted by a
second-hand car salesman, aren’t they? Still, it was very nice of him to
lend it to you. I’m so sorry I missed you. I was waiting in the
vestibule and only caught a glimpse of you as you shot through and you’d
started off in George’s car before I could catch you.”

She let in the clutch as she spoke and they moved away into the
darkness.

“I’m sorry, too. Very silly of me,” murmured the man in the oilskins. He
was feeling his way very cautiously. Clearly they were on dangerous
ground and now was not the time for explanations. Whoever this blessed
girl was she was certainly helpful and appeared to rely on him to play
up to her.

He leant back among the cushions and strained his eyes in the darkness.
Gradually he made out the two silhouettes against the windscreen. The
girl was small but erect and the line of her shoulders was square, like
a boy’s. Of course! She was the young woman with the heart-shaped face
and the disconcertingly intelligent light brown eyes who had spoken to
him in the hospital vestibule. She must have been trying to tell him
that this car was by the gate. No wonder she was treating him now as if
he were mentally deficient. So he was, God help him. So he was.

The man who sat beside her was less definite in outline. He appeared to
be a spreading bundle with a large head adorned by a flat cap which sat
upon it like a lid. He turned presently and leant over the back.

“Rather a disturbing adventure,” he remarked conversationally. His windy
voice was old and foolish but it was also dangerously inquisitive.

The man in the back of the car hesitated.

“It was, in a way,” he said at last.

“I know. I know.” The old man was determined to talk, whatever the
effort. “Still, you did your duty. There’s a great comfort in that.
Probably the only thanks you’ll get out of it. A Good Samaritan . . .”

“Is his own reward,” supplied the girl without moving her head. “All the
same,” she went on carefully, “I don’t see what else you could have
done. After all, if a stranger is polite enough to talk to one in a
railway carriage and nutty enough to fall over one’s bag and stun
himself in getting out the least one can do is to take him to hospital.”

“I can think of less,” said the old man, grunting into his muffler.
“Can’t you, Campion?”

“Yes, yes, I can.” The man in the back of the car was not thinking what
he was saying. Campion. He seized on the name eagerly and tried to think
that it was familiar. At first he was convinced that it was, and relief
rushed over him. But the next moment he was not sure again and despair
returned. It was an unnerving experience and he felt for a cigarette.

Finding that he had no pockets, he leant forward automatically and
discovered in the dark a packet and a lighter tucked into the case at
the back of the front seat. He was actually smoking before he realized
the significance of his behaviour. He must have known the cigarettes
were there. He had taken one as naturally as if he had done it a hundred
times before. The explanation was obvious. He had. He was in his own
car.

He lay back to think it over. His head was abominably sore but his mind
was clear. It was only his memory which had deserted him and, if he
could not remember, at least he could put together what facts he had.

The one clear conclusion to be drawn from present developments, he
decided, was that he and the girl were up to something—or at least she
certainly was. She was protecting him the whole time, feeding him with
story after story and doing it very well, almost as though she were used
to it. Perhaps she was.

The conviction that she was his wife came slowly. The more he thought of
it the more likely it became. Here she was, driving his car, looking
after him like a mother, lying for him like a heroine. George’s car
indeed! For the first time since he had recovered consciousness in the
hospital ward he saw a ray of comfort in his prospect. The abysmal
loneliness of his position was spanned. Apart from his tremendous relief
he was also suddenly delighted and he peered at her again in the
darkness.

She drove very well, with confidence and with an unusual sympathy for
the machine. He appreciated that. So many people approached the petrol
engine as if it were something vindictive, to be mastered with daring
and a firm hand. He liked her voice too. It was clear and well bred,
without being affected, and it was also engagingly immature. Her face he
could only just remember from his brief glimpse of her in the entrance
hall of the hospital, but he liked the carriage of her head and the
courage and dignity in those small square shoulders.

His spirits rose. If she were his wife he was all right. It had gone
through his mind once or twice that he might be a crook of some sort.
The notion had so depressed him that he was inclined to discount it as
unlikely on those very grounds. But he had opened the fire cupboard with
the hairpin and there had been that mysterious remark about money made
by the bobby to the nurse. Why should it have looked odd when he had
been found with a lot of money on him? Why should the authorities have
taken it for granted that he had slugged a policeman? Had anyone seen
him do it? Had he done it? He did not feel a particularly violent man.
What sort of person was he, anyway?

The final question pulled him up with a start. He had no idea.
Physically he appeared to be fairly tall and he was thin. He had plenty
of hair and his teeth were his own. Without a mirror he could tell no
more.

His impression of the girl was that she was young, perhaps very young,
and he considered the question of his own age thoughtfully. He was fit
and, apart from a natural shakiness after his experience, which,
whatever it had been, had left him with aching limbs and a reeling head,
he felt fairly athletic. He wondered. He was clearly not a boy but, on
the other hand, surely he was not old? Finally he plumped for
twenty-nine. It was a nice age anyhow and he felt no more.

He began to feel better, almost adventurous. The big car was brushing
aside the miles and he had half persuaded himself that the
police-slugging episode was part of some past delirium when the elderly
man stirred himself.

“I see where we are now,” he said contentedly. “We must have come
fifteen miles out of our way.” He broke off abruptly and laughed, the
silly little high-pitched giggle of a foolish old man. “I mean five
miles, of course,” he added clumsily. “I don’t know what made me say
fifteen.”

The man who had been told that his name was Campion glanced up sharply
in the darkness and the shadowy tide of anxiety rolled up into his mind
once more.

“It’s not far now, anyway.” The girl’s cool voice was comfortably
matter-of-fact. “If you don’t mind, Mr Anscombe, we’ll put you down at
your house and rush on to change. Aubrey has put the meal back to
eight-thirty and we can’t in all decency be late. We’ll see you there,
shan’t we?”

“Yes, yes, I shall be there.” The old man sounded enthusiastic. “I never
miss an opportunity to dine at the Institute now that Aubrey is the
skipper. I remember his predecessor, the great Doctor Hale. He was an
able fellow but nothing like Aubrey. Lee Aubrey is one of the big men of
our time.”

“Yes,” said the girl thoughtfully. “Yes, I think he may be. He’s not
afraid to surround himself with brains.”

Anscombe grunted. “A particularly brilliant man on his own account,” he
announced didactically. “We were more than lucky to get him here at
Bridge. I remember the famous session when his appointment was announced
to the Secret Conclave. As Hereditary Secretary to the Society I was
very much congratulated, but I said ‘Don’t thank me, Masters of
Bridge’—that’s the customary address, you know—‘Don’t thank me. Thank
the man himself for coming to us.’”

He settled himself in his seat and sighed. It was clear to Campion that
he was talking of matters very near his heart. Pride and more than a
touch of pomposity glowed from him.

Anscombe? The name meant nothing to Campion. But Bridge, and the
Institute struck a vaguely familiar note. He fancied that they were
well-known terms, something he had heard about all his life.

Presently the old man spoke again.

“Aubrey is a wealthy man too, you know,” he said. “It’s not generally
known, but he donates the whole of his two thousand pound salary to some
scholarship fund in the north. His private income must be considerable.
Still, it suits him, you know. He has a unique position which no money
in the world could buy, and a house which is virtually a museum-piece,
also not for purchase. You’re comfortable there, aren’t you?”

“Very. It’s a glorious house, isn’t it, Albert?”

It took Campion some seconds to realize that she was talking to him, but
his response, when it did come, was manfully enthusiastic.

Mr Anscombe turned in his seat.

“You’re tired,” he said. “That experience of yours took it out of you.
That sort of thing often does. London is exhausting, too. What are you
wearing? A mackintosh? I can hear something rustling but I can’t see
you. It’s very warm in here. Why don’t you take it off?”

“No. I don’t think I will, thanks.” To his horror he heard himself
beginning to laugh, but again the girl came to his rescue.

“Leave him alone,” she said. “He’s in disgrace. He’s taken the wrong
car, led us miles out of the way, and now he dozes off smelling like a
bicycle shop. You’ll have to give up oilskins, Albert, at any rate for
wear in a confined space. Still, we’re practically there. This is your
gate, isn’t it, Mr Anscombe? You wouldn’t think it awfully rude of us if
we didn’t take the car into the drive, would you?”

“Oh of course not, of course not. I’m late myself. Thank you very much
for all your kindness. I feel I forced myself on you this afternoon, but
you’ve been so very good, so very good.”

He was hoisting himself out of the low seat with difficulty as he spoke
and his hollow foolish voice squeaked and trailed away as he landed
himself safely on the pavement and closed the door. Through the window
the remaining passenger caught a glimpse of him disappearing between
high stucco pillars towards a steep dark house beyond.

“Silly little man,” said the girl suddenly. “He’s left his parcel. I
shan’t be a moment. I’ll take it to him.”

“That’s all right, I’ll do that,” Campion said hastily, fumbling for the
door handle.

“You can’t in those clothes.”

“Yes, I can. He won’t see me. Or if he does he’ll have to realize I’m an
eccentric. Where’s his baggage?”

She turned towards him in the darkness.

“It’s books, I think,” she said. “Here you are.”

He took the square parcel and staggered out after the departing figure.
It was brighter than he thought and he did not call to the man but came
up the small drive quietly. The front door was already closed when he
found it, and, rather than knock, he laid the package on the step and
hurried down the drive to the waiting car again.

With the departure of Anscombe the very car seemed more comfortable. The
girl let in the clutch softly and they slid away. The man, who was still
trying to remember if his name really was Albert Campion, leant forward.
Now that he was alone with this delightful if unrecognizable wife of his
he felt unexpectedly embarrassed about coming to the vital point. She
was having such an extraordinary effect on him. He was so very glad of
her, so childishly content and happy to find her. He wished to God that
she would take his head on her heart and let him go to sleep. It was
ridiculous to have to ask her to tell him her name.

“It is all very difficult,” he began awkwardly.

“I know.” Her agreement was so heartfelt that it silenced him. “It’s
frightful, and there’s absolutely no time to talk and get it straight.
We’re here already and we daren’t be late, it’ll look so fishy.”

She swung the car up a steep incline and through a columned gateway as
she spoke.

“I only found out where you were by a miracle. I’d been waiting down at
the station as we arranged. I got rid of Anscombe until four o’clock,
but after that I had to carry him around with me, telling him one
dubious tale after another. I had to bring him because he insisted. He
said he had to see his dentist and he asked Lee Aubrey if I’d give him a
lift. Lee made a personal request of it and I couldn’t refuse without
sounding suspicious. So there he was.”

The car had not stopped. As far as Campion could see they were rolling
through some sort of park. The girl was still talking. She was nervous
and a little breathless.

“He’s a terrifying old boy, isn’t he?” she demanded. “Flat mental
deficiency for ninety-nine per cent of the time and single flashes of
acuteness. You don’t know whether it’s silver showing through the
disguising tarnish or the last few flecks of plate on the old tin spoon.
Our only hope is to get down to the meal and behave normally. Have you
got anything under that decontamination outfit? Can we leave it in the
car?”

“It all depends where we’re going,” he said. “I’m in pyjamas . . . awful
grey flannel things.”

“What?” She stopped the car in her astonishment and turned to him. “What
happened? You’re not hurt?”

“Oh lord no,” he said, warmed by her anxiety. “I’m all right really. I
only got knocked out.”

“Oh that was it, was it?” she said, much more relieved than he had
expected her to be and far less surprised. “The man in the paper shop
simply whispered ‘hospital.’ I didn’t get an opportunity to talk to him
at all. The place was full of people and there wasn’t time. It was
nearly five then and I had the wretched Anscombe inside. That old man
knows something, I swear it.”

“More than I do,” said Campion grimly.

To his surprise she caught him up. “Yes,” she said. “That’s what I
thought. We’ll bear him in mind. I say, I am glad you’re all right. It
never went through my mind that you might have gone to the hospital as a
patient. When I saw you charging out in the deepsea-diver costume I
thought some kind friend had lent it to you to hide the tramp’s garbage.
I’ve got your change in the luggage hatch. That’s what was worrying me
so when you didn’t turn up before Anscombe returned, I didn’t see how I
was going to get it to you before he saw you. Well, it’s silly to change
now, isn’t it? You’ll have to smuggle yourself in.”

The man laughed. She was charming and he was very tired.

“Anything you say, lady,” he said. “Where do we go?”

“I think that side door,” she said, “don’t you? The one that leads up
out of the yard where we leave the car. I know it’s bad form for house
guests to use the back stairs, but we’ll just have to look badly brought
up if we’re seen. You could always shout ‘Fire!’ again of course, but
that might not help in the long run.”

He sat watching her silhouette as she manoeuvred the big car skilfully
into a narrow entrance by the side of a large dim building. She was an
astonishing young person, as practical and energetic as a child and
utterly without affectation. He thought her voice was the coolest and
most comforting sound he had ever heard.

She parked the car and he climbed out, stiff and unsteady, into a neat
old-fashioned stableyard with cobbles under his feet and the low
graceful lines of Georgian outbuildings just visible in the faint light.
By the time he emerged she had already opened the luggage hatch and was
tugging at a suitcase within.

He took it from her and would have put his free arm round her shoulders,
but she did not notice his gesture and it occurred to him that he did
not usually exhibit such open affection. He was wondering a little at
himself when she called him from the house.

“Come on, Albert. It’s awfully late.”

He found her waiting for him in a dark arched doorway.

“Two steps up,” she said. “Come on. It’s got a blackout gadget which
turns out the light when you open the door.”

As the wood closed softly behind him the small passage in which they
stood lit up and in a soft yellow glow the comfortable flagged and
panelled interior of a perfect Georgian house emerged. A baize door
opposite him clearly cut off the reception half of the establishment and
a narrow flight of oak stairs on their left led to a similar door on the
first floor. The girl made for this upper door and as she ran up the
staircase he suddenly saw her and recognized her, the first real and
familiar thing to emerge in the terrifying darkness of his mind. Her
thin young back under the perfectly cut brown tweed of her suit, her red
curls, and her small brown hand on the bannister were all suddenly well
known and inexpressibly dear to him.

“Amanda!” he said.

“Yes?” She swung round on the top of the stairs and stood looking down
at him, a picture of arrested movement, her light brown eyes questioning
and every line of her heart-shaped face alive and young.

He laughed and came hurrying up the stairs after her.

“I only wanted to hear you answer to your name.”

The smile faded from her face and he thought she looked a trifle
embarrassed.

“I’m not really rattled,” she murmured unexpectedly and as if he had
reproached her. “It’s only that it’s all so horribly important and
imminent. You’ve come back all carefree. Did something good happen?”

“No, I’m rather afraid it didn’t. This is light-headedness,” he said,
and followed her through the second baize door into a small world of
past elegance.

Amanda crossed the upper hall, where stripped pine panelling, Chinese
carpet, and sage-green drapery made a Georgian setting without either
the stuffiness or the full-blooded ostentation of that great period of
nouveaux-riches, and opened a door under an archway.

“Yes, they’ve put your things out, thank God,” she said, peering across
another expanse of carpet. “Lee has got the servant problem taped,
hasn’t he? It’s the combination of love _and_ money, you know. They not
only adore him but he pays them the earth. You get dressed and so will
I. I’ll give you ten minutes. We can’t wash much: that’s all there is to
it. Then I’ll come back. I must see you before we go down. Bless you.”

She was gone before he could stop her, whisking into a room on the other
side of the hall while her vivid friendly personality still warmed and
comforted him like the glow of a coal fire.

Albert Campion went into the room that presumably was his own and looked
at the dinner-jacket laid out neatly on his bed. The tailor’s tab inside
the breast pocket assured him that it was his and that he had bought it
in the preceding spring. Now that he had been on his feet for some
little time his weakness had become more apparent and, with the
departure of Amanda, his earlier lost feeling returned. He began to
dress carefully, moving slowly and with a certain amount of difficulty.
After a minute or so he gave up trying to fathom any further deeper
mysteries than those concerning the whereabouts of his underclothes and
washing tackle. He had to hurry. Amanda was coming back in ten minutes
and that was time enough to get all the serious questions settled. He
clung to the thought of Amanda. As his wife she was the one
satisfactory, friendly truth in a world of villainous fantasy.

Meanwhile the obvious thing to do was to get himself safely changed.

He accepted his reflection in the shaving mirror discovered in the
adjoining bathroom without seeing it, as do most men every morning of
their lives. His self-searching mood had disappeared and his sole
anxiety was to get his chin smooth. The cool comfort of well-fitting
clothes soothed him and he had tied his tie and was getting into his
jacket when a knock sounded on the door. He sprang to open it with an
eagerness which wrenched his stiff body unmercifully, and stepped back
in blank disappointment an instant later. It was not Amanda, but a
dinner-jacketed stranger who smiled at him familiarly and wandered into
the room.

“My dear chap, I’m so glad you’ve got back,” he said, revealing a voice
several times deeper than the average, and so flexible that its charm
was instantaneous. “Trouble all cleared up?”

Campion nodded without speaking. Even if some flicker of memory had not
struggled to help him, he would have known the newcomer was his host as
soon as he set eyes on him. The tall, big-boned figure, with its
suggestion of elegant negligence, was impressive and went with the
house. He recognized the type, or rather the species of original spirit,
immediately.

Lee Aubrey was a personality; that is to say he exuded a force and a
spiritual flavour as actual as if it had been warmth, or a small
electric current. His big head was extravagantly moulded, the features
fine but large and over-drawn, and his smiling eyes were kindly rather
than friendly. The most striking thing about him was that he could not,
apparently much to his regret, provide any stretch of common ground on
which to walk with normal men. There was no suggestion of equality in
his bearing but rather an exaggerated humility, as if he were in the
habit of going down on mental all-fours to conduct any simple
conversation. Now, as he stood lounging awkwardly against the
mantelpiece, he was laughing a little, indulgently ashamed of himself
for his clumsy efforts to relax.

“I was rather glad to put food off for half an hour,” he said. “Fyshe
from the War House has been down. Extraordinarily inferior mind. A
decent chap. Quite sound, of course, but thunderingly dull. It took
Butcher all day to tell him what he wanted to know, while any
intelligent undergraduate could have mastered the thing in a couple of
hours. It’s absurd, isn’t it?”

He laughed again, half apologetically, for making the criticism.

“Absurd,” said Campion.

It was coming back to him, or some of it was. This was the Principal’s
House in the Bridge Institute of General Research, that remarkable and
ancient institution which, from being a provincial curiosity, part
charity and part museum, for a hundred and fifty years, had blossomed
forth in the early part of the century into one of the most valuable
centres in the country. The recollection came as Amanda’s name had come;
not as a raising of the curtain of darkness which hung between the front
and the back of his mind, but as a sudden rent in it which flashed a
whole scene from the brightness within, only to close again a moment
later as the folds resettled. It was all very confusing and alarming.

Lee Aubrey was looking at him intently.

“You’re most frightfully tired,” he said gently. “Or is something
wrong?”

“No, no, I’m all right.” Campion was surprised at his own vehemence, but
it seemed desperately important to keep his secret.

“Oh that—that’s fine.” The other man was as hurt as a child. “Won’t you
come down? By the way, did you get your letters? There were two or three
for you this morning. John should have brought them up here. He’s
probably left them in my study. I’ll get them for you myself. Shall we
go?”

He was lounging towards the door, self-conscious and uncomfortably
gauche like an adolescent.

“No, I can’t for a moment. I’m waiting for Amanda. We’ve got to talk to
each other.”

Even in his confused state the words appeared a little bald to Mr
Campion. Aubrey swung round and his eyes were suddenly sharp and
frighteningly intelligent.

“Oh, I see,” he said and immediately he became deeply if consciously
kind again. “I see, I’ll go down and hold the fort until you come.”

He went out gently, and, it seemed to Mr Campion, without compassion.

Left alone, the man in the bedroom returned to his earlier problems. He
thrust the fire-fighting kit into the bottom of a wardrobe and was about
to close the door on it when a sound behind made him turn. It was
Amanda. She was there just as he had expected her, in a long smooth
white dress which seemed right and familiar and made her look about
sixteen. She was wonderfully easy to look at. That discovery struck him
as new and surprising and he felt irritated with himself that it should
be so.

“Oh, that’s grand,” she said, nodding at him approvingly. “I was so
afraid you might potter a bit, as you usually do. What are you up to?
Admiring yourself?”

He glanced behind him and saw the point of her remark. The door of the
armoire had swung open, revealing a dressing mirror within.

“No,” he said and paused abruptly. He had just caught sight of himself
and her standing beside him. He was older than he had thought. He saw a
horrified man of thirty-five or so, tall and remarkably thin, with a
lean wooden face on which there were far more lines than he had
expected. She, on the other hand, might have been still at school.

“You look much more intelligent than usual,” she remarked. “Don’t you
think so?”

“God help me, do I?” he said involuntarily. “I am rather shocked, as a
matter of fact.”

He saw the amusement die out of her face.

“That’s not fair,” she said unhelpfully.

“What isn’t?” he said turning to her and catching her hands.

To his surprise her embarrassment increased and she released herself
slowly and stood before him, a steady determined young person, serious
and annihilatingly frank.

“Albert,” she said, “I know this isn’t the time, and that all this
business going on is far more serious at the moment, but I’ve got this
on my mind and I want to clear it up. You know you were going to marry
me next month?”

The information, coupled with the ominous form in which it was offered,
appalled him. His disappointment and loneliness was so acute that it
produced a physical chill and he stood looking at her without realizing
that his face was a complete blank.

“Was I?” he said flatly.

She did not speak and he had the dreadful impression that he had struck
her, or had behaved in some other disgraceful way quite out of character
with himself or her.

She drew back from him and for a moment he felt panic-stricken that she
was going to walk out and leave him.

“Don’t,” he said wildly. “I didn’t mean that, Amanda. I’m completely at
sea. I don’t know where I am or who I am or what I’m doing.”

“Oh I know.” She was herself again, impulsive and warm and friendly. “I
know and I’ll see you through this. You can rely on me absolutely all
the time. That is true. You do know that?”

She thrust her arm through his and he felt the urgent, nervous strength
of her young body against his side.

“I’ll do anything, Albert. This is desperate, the most important, the
most serious business you’ve ever come up against, and I’m with you. I
wouldn’t be here if I wasn’t. It’s disgusting of me to talk about the
marriage when you’re nearly off your head with worry about the other
thing, but you know how hopeless I am about hiding anything and I
couldn’t bear to behave like a hussy even for ten minutes. You see,
we’ve never had a love affair, have we? I’ve just been going to marry
you ever since I was seventeen. We’ve known each other so long, and
quite frankly it was me who ever suggested getting married at all. You’d
almost forgotten about it in the strain of this other business, hadn’t
you? My good ape, don’t be polite about it. It’s silly when we’re so
used to one another. Well now, I want to call all that off. I don’t have
to explain any more than that, do I?”

Albert Campion let the honest young pronouncement sink into his
shuttering mind.

“How old are you?” he asked.

“Twenty-five.”

“As old as that? And you’ve been going to marry me for eight years.”

“Well, yes. Don’t be silly, you know I have, more or less. We don’t go
talking like this as a rule but it’s got to be mentioned some time. It
wasn’t really fixed by either of us and it was simply that I’ve never
considered marrying anybody else. The question has never sort of come
up, has it? But now, well, I thought I’d like to lay off, and like a
complete mug I’ve come rushing in to tell you at this ungodly moment
when you’re exhausted and nearly off your head with worry about
something which really is terrific. I’m sorry and ashamed, but anyway
it’s done. I’ve made it clear and that’s all right.”

“You’ve been going to marry me for _eight years_.” He did not repeat the
words aloud but they glowed at him from among the shadows and he strove
helplessly to reconcile the information with the man he had so recently
discovered himself to be. If he was a half-wit now, he seemed to have
been a lunatic for some considerable time.

“And now you’re not.” Again he did not utter the phrase, but its
finality petrified him. As he came to the surface he had a momentary
flash of insight.

“Now you want a free hand?”

She glanced up at him and her brown eyes were level and truthful.

“Yes,” she agreed steadily. “I want a free hand. Come on, we must go
down. Lee’s waiting.”

“Oh, just a moment.” The appeal escaped him in desperation. “There are
one or two things I’ve got to know. You see, when I got myself . . .” He
paused with the words “knocked out” drying on his lips as he saw the
pitfall and realized how she had forestalled him. He could hardly tell
her now. To reveal his helplessness at this juncture would be both to
plead weakness and to appeal to her pity, and to appeal to pity is very
loathsome in love. He was appalled to discover how much love there was
to be reckoned with. They seemed somehow to have achieved the mutual
confidence of marriage without it, and now at a stroke it was destroyed;
now, when probably for the first time he was realizing how much he had
come to depend upon it.

“When you got yourself what?” she enquired.

“Nothing. It’ll do later.”

She put her hand in his. “You’re a dear,” she said with that sudden
candour which he had rejoiced at in her. “I knew you’d be like this.
You’ve always been rather magnificent, Albert, and you still are. Isn’t
it a mercy that you’ve never . . . I mean that you’re a bit sensible,
and . . . er . . . well, not exactly cold, but . . .”

“Fish-like,” he said bitterly and let her lead him, lonely and wretched,
downstairs towards that sinister “other thing” which was still lying
like an ominous bundle behind the dark curtains of his mind.


                                   IV

The drawing-room of the Principal’s house at the Institute of Bridge was
typical both of its owner and of the foundation; that is to say, it was
a genuine period piece which had been considerably improved by modern
austerity and modern money. Its fluted columns and Wedgwood plaques had
been stripped and cleaned and each piece of furniture that it contained
had been chosen with care and a splendid disregard of cost either one
way or the other, so that an old fruit-wood chair picked up for half a
crown rubbed shoulders with Mozart’s own spinet, acquired at
considerable sacrifice.

When Campion followed Amanda in he walked into one of the few
recognizable atmospheres of that nightmare evening. Intelligent academic
formality, than which there is nothing more indestructible, closed over
his head like a sea of glue.

Five people stood about sipping sherry from beautiful old apple-green
glasses, and the soft light of candles in silver sticks flickered on
determinedly unfashionable clothes and proud, clever, conservative
faces.

Lee Aubrey came over to them at once, excusing himself briefly to the
middle-aged woman with whom he had been talking. He smiled briefly at
Amanda and turned to peer at her companion with one of his typical
glances, as if he were humbly taking a little look at the soul and
finding much to sympathize with there.

In the normal way Mr Campion, who was acute in these matters, would have
recognized the phenomenon and enjoyed it all for what it was worth, but
tonight he was not himself and he felt suddenly savage.

Lee was disarming.

“This is fine,” he said. “Now it’s just Anscombe to come. I don’t think
you’ve met everyone, have you?”

He performed the introductions with casual efficiency and four faces,
one male and three female, peered up into Mr Campion’s own in dreamlike
succession. A pair of round dark eyes under grey brows registered on him
as he bowed to the third masculine member of the party, and he received
a blurred impression of a wedge of a man with a great chest and
dwindling legs. But the women meant nothing to him. One was elderly,
with an untidy white haircut and black eyes, but she barely spoke to
him, fixing her attention entirely on Amanda.

Lee carried him over to the other side of the room, ostensibly to find
some sherry.

“Rather a depressing assembly, I’m afraid,” he murmured diffidently,
“but it simply couldn’t be helped. This is municipal intelligentsia, my
dear chap. The Bridge Institute may do work of national importance but
it’s still the so-called philanthropic little plaything of the Masters
of Bridge. There’s something frightful about hereditary possession.”

“I wonder the State doesn’t take it over,” said Campion and realized
that the observation was idiotic as soon as he had made it.

Aubrey looked at him with bewildered incredulity.

“Naturally they’d like to,” he said, “but it belongs to the town and
it’s pretty much of a financial asset, isn’t it?”

“Yes, of course. I’d forgotten.” In spite of his care the final word
carried more emphasis than Campion had intended and again his host
peered at him with concern.

“My dear good man, you’re exhausted,” he said. “For heaven’s sake have a
drink. Would you rather have something other than this? I don’t want to
be an infernal nuisance, but isn’t there anything I can do?”

It went through Mr Campion’s mind to say “Yes, find out how I killed a
policeman, old boy, and while you’re about it have a squint to see if
I’ve cracked my own skull,” and to observe what happened, but he checked
this irresponsibility. He felt as if he were just half drunk, he
decided; sober enough to realize that it was definitely not wise to
talk.

“Very kind of you,” he said, “but I’m all right. A little tired, nothing
else.” He had spoken more loudly than he would normally have done and
his host recoiled as the words sounded clearly in the hushed and frigid
air.

“I see,” he said very gently. “I see. Do forgive me. Oh yes, wait a
minute, here are your letters. I brought them along.”

He took a handful of mail out of the coat pocket of his loose
dinner-jacket as he spoke and withdrew at once, with his odd
self-conscious diffidence.

Campion glanced at the letters with a slowly growing sense of
satisfaction. All but one were re-addressed to him from 17a Bottle
Street, Piccadilly, and the sight of his name on several envelopes
appeared to lend him, however unreasonably, a certain faith in his own
identity.

He opened the letter which had not been re-addressed but had come to him
direct at the Bridge Institute and stood looking at a clumsily typed
sheet which no one but an executive who normally employed a secretary
would have dared to send out. It was headed baldly: “My office. The
Yard. Tuesday,” and ran on: “Dear A.C. Interesting conversation this
afternoon with Pugh, whom T. brought in. Fancy a man called Anscombe is
your best bet. He is Secretary to the Masters. Oldish, I think and with
a sister. For God’s sake get busy. Keep your eye on the calendar. The
figures 15 turn my belly whenever I see or hear them. Nothing else this
end. Saw the Minister again. Hardly recognized him. Enjoyed seeing
fellow of that type exhibiting the weakness and humanity of the common
bloke, but put the wind up me all the same. Forced to rely on you only
now. Every other line has gone slack and the time is so short. If you
fail, for my part I shall wait until the balloon actually does go up and
then swim quietly out to sea. This is a tripey way of putting it but
can’t bring myself to put down what I really feel. If this thing happens
it is the _END_ and I mean that. I’m not a religious chap, as you know,
but I’m praying now literally and if any blasted bobby on the beat wants
to see me do it he’s welcome to come in here and look at his Dep.
Commish on his knees. Damn you, succeed. S.”

Mr Albert Campion read the letter through twice. The words themselves
were convincing enough but there was something else. Something about the
note was more than ordinarily startling. Suddenly he recognized what it
was. Stanislaus did not write like that in the ordinary way. He accepted
the name without realizing that it had not been written in full and
concentrated on the really alarming peculiarity. Stanislaus Oates was an
old man, a prim, elderly policeman of the oldest school, and he was
hysterical. That was horrible, as dreadful as seeing a quarter of the
Nelson Column sticking up raggedly against a lowering sky. He crumpled
the paper into a ball and thrust it into his pocket until he should get
near the fire to destroy it. There were cold waves playing up and down
his spine. This was truly frightful. Some terrible responsibility rested
upon him and not only had he no recollection of what it was but he was
helpless, incapacitated by an obscene mental weakness from doing
anything about it.

Amanda’s laugh on the other side of the room cut into his thoughts. He
looked across and saw her. She was talking to Lee Aubrey, who was
leaning towards her, his big-featured face young and revealing, and a
belated puppyishness apparent in his attitude. A servant was at his
elbow trying to attract his attention and Campion saw him come out of
his mood and turn with a startled expression to follow the man out of
the room.

Amanda glanced after him. She was radiant and excited, the entire march
of her magnificent common sense and reliability set aside for the sweet,
foolish fandango which any lesser woman can dance when she is so minded.
Campion stood looking at her and it seemed to him that in that moment he
actually struggled up and out of a whole customary system of living and
emerged a small naked essence of the basic man. She should not do it.
She should not desert him. Pride, manners, custom, the habit of a
lifetime, and the training of an ancient system be damned. Amanda was
his. He needed her, and God help the man or the woman herself if there
was any smashing up of that combine.

He was walking over to her when Lee Aubrey came hurrying in and accosted
him. He listened to the murmured words with the sudden chill which a
vision of delay presents when an extra snag arises at a time of crisis.

“The Police?” he repeated. “I can’t see the Police now.”

“But my dear chap . . .” Aubrey’s deep voice was urgent, “please, not
here.”

Campion followed him out into the wide hall and saw through an open
doorway across an expanse of black and white flags the familiar gleam of
silver and blue.

“The whole thing was some idiotic mistake and I can’t spare the time,”
he said savagely.

Aubrey stared at him, his eyes surprised but shrewd.

“I don’t know what you’re talking about, Campion,” he said patiently.
“They’ve come about Anscombe. The poor old boy has just been found dead
in his garden and you and Amanda appear to be the last people to have
seen him alive.”


                                   V

“Anscombe?”

As the echo escaped Campion, the personality of the old man as he
remembered him slid into the front of his mind with startling vividness.
He saw again the ragged silhouette with the flat cap atop as it had
heaved towards him so ingratiatingly over the back of the car seat. The
recollection of the crumpled letter in his pocket also became very clear
before his eyes, like a close-up of a documentary on a movie screen. He
could re-read the operative words: “. . . a man called Anscombe is your
best bet.”

His new mood of reckless determination, which he suspected was
completely foreign to his nature, was still in complete possession of
him.

“Dead?” he said aloud. “He would be.”

Aubrey made no direct reply but Campion thought he saw the whites of his
eyes for a second.

“All the same, my dear chap,” he said at last, his tone only faintly
reproving, “we must do what we can. There’s a sister, and heaven only
knows what other complications. Come on.”

The immense blue greatcoat containing the police sergeant moved out of
the doorway as they approached and the bright room spread out before
them. Lee Aubrey’s private study was an impressive chamber at any time,
with its arched bookcases, unexpected curios, and deep green hangings.
It was a room with an air, a room used to soothing and entertaining
people of widely different types and standards, a diplomat among rooms,
gracious and superior, capable of simulating as well as subduing, but
none of its charm cut much ice with the man who stood waiting for them
as he warmed the back of his legs before the open fire.

Campion knew he was a County C.I.D. Superintendent the moment he set
eyes on him. He knew that as surely and in the same inspirational way
that he had known Amanda’s name or where to find a cigarette in the car.
There was no mistaking that tall, bright-eyed, smiling superiority
combined with a meticulous physical neatness. This last was a muscular
and sartorial spit-and-polish, almost naval in its perfection. The
stranger was the country policeman at his highest, an impressive
specimen anywhere.

Aubrey, whose gaucherie had given place to a remarkable energy
apparently engendered by the emergency, thrust his visitor forward.

“Superintendent Hutch,” he said briefly. “This is Mr Campion, Hutch.
Here we are. What can we do?”

“That’s a question, isn’t it?” said the Superintendent, revealing an
unexpectedly soft country accent, and Campion, glancing up sharply,
became aware of the brightest eyes he had ever met smiling into his own
with a startling intensity of horse-sense behind them.

The remark was clearly not intended to be taken at its face value. For
an appalling instant it occurred to Campion that he had been betrayed
and that Aubrey had got him to come quietly by a pretext. His face
became wooden and he waited, his hands in his pockets, for the next
move.

When it came it surprised him. Superintendent Hutch laughed a little. He
might almost have been embarrassed. Glancing down at a disreputable
piece of paper in his hand he said formally: “You are Mr Campion, are
you, sir?”

“It’s a hundred to one on, I should think, God help me.” Campion did not
say the words aloud, but they came into his mind involuntarily and he
smiled, only to freeze a moment later. The Superintendent, catching his
expression, had echoed the grin, secretly, alarmingly. His manner then
became uncomfortably informal and he spoke as important policemen are
apt to speak to cornered delinquents, affably and as if they were part
of the family.

“I just want the usual, you know,” he said cheerfully. “A brief account
of your last meeting with the deceased. Where did you leave him and
when?”

He had a jaunty manner which sat well on his slightly comical
countryman’s face, with the long duck’s-bill nose. He was evidently a
local character and was very sure of himself.

Campion took the plunge without a pause. Hesitation, he felt,
instinctively, was death.

“I last saw Anscombe at his own gate,” he began glibly. “We’d come
from—er—the town.”

“What town?”

He had not the least idea. The shaky lands spread out before him and he
wavered.

“I think we ought to have Amanda here.”

“Amanda, sir?”

“Yes, my fiancée, Miss . . .” The hopeless pitfall loomed too late.

Lee Aubrey was staring at him, but his surprise was not at Campion’s
astounding ignorance.

“I had rather hoped to keep Lady Amanda out of this as long as
possible,” he said briefly. He showed his annoyance and there was a
suggestion of colour on his high cheekbones.

Lady Amanda? Lady Amanda who? The utter hopelessness of the situation
might have defeated Campion at that moment had it not been for Aubrey’s
irritation. Who was Lee Aubrey to spare Amanda? What was this blasted
proprietory talk? Damn him and his chivalry!

“Ah yes, of course, my mistake. That will be Lady A. Fitton, won’t it?”
murmured the Superintendent, glancing down at the slip in his hand.

“No. It’s Lady Amanda. As the sister of a peer she takes her Christian
name.” Aubrey gave the snippet of information casually and the touch of
schoolmaster came oddly from him. “Lady Amanda was driving this
afternoon. She gave Mr Anscombe a lift into Coachingford when she went
to meet Mr Campion off the London express. They were delayed and didn’t
get back until just after eight. These are the brief facts. Mr Campion
can give you anything else you need, I think. You won’t need to trouble
her at all, will you?”

The last words were barely a question. He spoke with the complete
assurance of authority.

The Superintendent shifted his weight. He was not a young man and there
was a deal of experience in his long head. Campion, who had been
sidetracked momentarily by the two valuable names “Fitton” and
“Coachingford,” was now impressed by his hesitation and it dawned on him
that as Principal of the Bridge Institute Aubrey was no ordinary power
in the land.

“I think I ought to see her, sir, if you don’t mind,” Superintendent
Hutch’s soft voice was apologetic and he had a shy way of grinning, as
if he had a secret joke on somewhere.

Campion, who was not at all sure that he had not, found the habit
disconcerting.

Lee Aubrey clearly found his insistence astounding. He swung round on
the policeman.

“Mr Anscombe died naturally, surely?”

Hutch looked uncomfortable. “We’re not absolutely certain, sir. He
didn’t do it himself, that’s one sure thing. The Chief Constable is on
his way over now. More I can’t say, can I?”

“Good Lord!” Aubrey thrust his hands into the pockets of his loose
dinner-jacket. Then he whistled and stood for a moment irresolute,
staring at the blank wall. At length he turned abruptly. “I’ll fetch
her,” he said. “Mr Campion will tell you all he can. Apart from
everything else this is rather unpleasant. The man lives on the
Institute estate.”

He went out, leaving Campion with the two policemen. Hutch said nothing.
He stood studying his notes, his head bent earnestly over the small
bundle of old envelopes and loose half-sheets of paper on which he
appeared to have made them. His hesitation was unnerving. Campion was
fully alive to the dangers of his position. Any question about the drive
home from Coachingford must, if he stuck to the story Amanda had told
Anscombe, introduce the suicidally dangerous subject of hospitals. It
was the delay he dreaded most. He was getting a sufficiently clear angle
on himself to realize that whatever he might or might not have done, it
was no ordinary straightforward crime of violence, and meanwhile there
was clearly something of importance for him to do, and to do
immediately, if only he could get some sort of line on what it was. What
troubled him particularly was that he had a growing conviction that he
had been nearing success when disaster had overtaken him. There was a
sensation of discovery in the back of his consciousness, an impression
that things were moving. Moreover, the curtain between this misery of
ignorance and a very clear vision indeed was tantalizingly thin.

Hutch was looking at him with his now familiar half-smile. He was
waiting as though he expected Campion to speak first. The man who could
not remember took a deep breath.

“How did Anscombe die?” he enquired.

The policeman grinned. There was no other word for the terrifying secret
leer which spread over his face.

“We were going to ask you about that, Mr Campion,” he said.

In the moment of paralysed silence which followed, the step in the
doorway behind them came as a merciful release to Campion, and the brisk
new voice sounded comfortably commonplace.

“Hallo, Super. Mr Aubrey here? Oh, it’s you, is it, Campion? What a bad
business, eh?”

It was the greeting of a familiar, anyway, and Campion turned towards
the newcomer anxiously. He saw a heavy round man in early middle-age,
with a distinctive ugly face and impudent eyes beneath brows as fierce
and tufted as an Aberdeen’s. He conveyed energy and efficiency and the
sturdy decisiveness which goes with a simple point of view and no
nerves. It occurred to Campion that he looked like a man who did not
believe in ghosts, but for the rest he was as much a stranger as anyone
else in this new and confusing world. At the moment he was very full of
the story.

“I’m supposed to have dropped in for coffee,” he said, “but the chap who
let me in tells me you haven’t started to eat yet. He told me this
dreadful tale about Anscombe, too. Poor old boy! He couldn’t face it, I
suppose. Or am I letting cats out of bags?”

The Superintendent eyed him.

“It wasn’t suicide, Mr Pyne.”

“_Wasn’t_ suicide?” The newcomer seemed first astounded and then
embarrassed. “Well, I’m glad to hear it,” he said. “What a _gaffe_!
Lucky there were only you two to hear me. I’m always putting my foot in
it like that. There’s been a lot of gossip about, you know. You’ve heard
it, haven’t you, Super? About the Secretaryship of the Masters.”

“Seems to me I did hear something.” Hutch was very cautious.

“You must have done.” Pyne’s eyes were amused beneath his tremendous
brows. “It’s been told me in strictest confidence by everyone I’ve met
in the last three months. I heard that the job, like all these
hereditary offices, took a fine old packet to keep up, and that the old
man was on the verge of a smash and had made up his mind to resign.
Naturally, as soon as I heard he was a deader I thought he’d done it
himself. One would. It breaks an old man’s heart to give up a position
carrying a bit of kudos like that, especially when it’s been in the
family for generations. The Bi-Annual Meeting of the Masters is sometime
this week, isn’t it?”

“Tomorrow.”

“Is it? Very likely. They’re such a secret high-and-mighty body that
they don’t trouble to publish a little thing like that.” He laughed. “I
like it,” he said. “It appeals to the kid in all of us, that kind of
mumbo-jumbo, even if it is only a sort of glorified parish council.”

The Superintendent looked frankly scandalized and Pyne, catching
Campion’s eye, burst out laughing. It was a pleasant, open sound, a
trifle high-pitched like his voice but full of limited humour.

“We’re philistines, we Londoners,” he said. “The Masters are sacrosanct
down here in Bridge. I’m sorry, Super. I’m behaving disgustingly. Poor
old Anscombe! I didn’t know him well, of course. I’d only met him once
or twice. You didn’t know him at all, did you, Campion?”

“I appear to have been the last person to have seen him alive.” The
remark seemed to be the most cautious he could make in the
circumstances, but it was not altogether fortunate. Amanda, who followed
Aubrey into the room at that particular moment, heard it and said the
first and natural thing to come into her head.

“I was there too,” she said, “unless you saw him in the garden when you
followed him in.”

Everybody looked at Campion. Aubrey and Hutch looked because they knew
where Anscombe had died and Amanda and Pyne looked because the others
were looking.

“That’s right,” said Campion. “I followed him into the garden with a
parcel he’d left in the car. I didn’t catch him, though, so I put the
package on the doorstep and went back.”

There was another pause after he had spoken and again it was broken by
Pyne.

“What an extraordinary thing to do, old boy,” he said and laughed
awkwardly.

Campion hesitated, remembering his reason for not ringing the door-bell,
and meanwhile Amanda leapt to the rescue.

“We were so late,” she explained. “I was jittering in the car in case we
didn’t have time to dress. I begged Albert not to be a moment and he
wasn’t.”

“How long would you say you were, sir?” The Superintendent was making
hieroglyphics on the back of one of his depressing envelopes.

“I don’t know exactly. A minute and a half, perhaps. I went straight up
the path and I came straight back again.”

“You didn’t meet anyone or hear anything?”

“No. What was there for me to hear?”

Hutch was magnificently deaf to the question.

“I think I’ll ask you to step across with me, if you don’t mind, sir,”
he said briskly. “I’d just like to see exactly where you put that
parcel. We haven’t come across it yet.”

“I’ll come too, shall I?” Amanda’s young voice was eager, as usual, and
Campion found it very comforting. She at least was definitely on his
side.

The Superintendent was dampening, however.

“No, Miss—er—Lady Amanda. That’ll be quite all right,” he said firmly.
“I won’t disturb Mr Aubrey’s dinner party more than I can help. If I
want any more from you I’ll know where to find you, shan’t I?”

“You’ll come back later on, then, Hutch.” Aubrey spoke for the first
time since his return from the drawing-room and Campion, glancing at
him, saw that he was annoyed by the whole situation. It was such an
unexpected reaction that he noticed it and filed it for future
reference. Such magnificent aloofness from the ordinary point of view
was impressive. However, Aubrey caught his glance and evidently realized
that he had betrayed a weakness, albeit a somewhat godlike one, for he
smiled at Campion awkwardly and murmured apologetically, “It’s absurd,
but I believe I’m worrying about my wretched duties as a host. One finds
oneself doing incredible things like that.” His complete frankness was
disarming, as also was his sudden return of gaucherie. All the same he
did not change his mind and Campion saw himself delivered over to Hutch,
alone and unprotected.

While he had someone with him to use as a stalking horse he felt he had
at least an outside chance of getting by with his damning disability
undiscovered, but alone he felt that the Superintendent must detect him
in five minutes. Some of his old alarm must have shown itself in his
face, for as he turned from Aubrey, Pyne suddenly laid a reassuring hand
on his shoulder.

“I’ll come along with you,” he said. “Any reason why I shouldn’t,
Super?”

The touch of belligerence in the question was unmistakable and Campion
was aware of Hutch’s bright eyes regarding him curiously. He forced
himself to meet them squarely and to his intense relief and surprise the
policeman shrugged his shoulders.

“None at all,” he said grudgingly. “We’ll go at once if you don’t mind.
The Chief Constable will probably be there by now and we can’t keep him
waiting.”

He led the way and they followed him, Pyne still holding Campion’s
shoulder.

As Campion passed Amanda she looked up at him and winked. It was such a
swift gesture and her face remained so composed both before and after it
that he was hardly sure it had happened. At the same moment Aubrey
touched her arm and drew her back into the hall towards the dining-room.

The three men made the short journey on foot. It was a ghostly night.
The moon had come out of the clouds and was riding high and serene, her
blunt horns cutting into the sky, but the ground-mist had become
thicker, so that the Superintendent, marching along in front, looked
like a ridiculous bust of himself, his head and shoulders alone clearly
defined in the cold light.

They passed down the drive with the gravel crunching under their feet
and out of the misty sea around them other buildings, some of them very
square and modern, rose up on either side in the middle distance.

Pyne shook his head. “You can’t help handing it to Aubrey,” he remarked,
panting a little, for they were walking fast. “In seven years he’s
turned this place from a museum into a living brain factory. There’s
more valuable work done in these twelve acres than in any other place in
the country. He’s got breadth of vision, that chap. I’ve never met such
a personality, have you? It gets me every time.”

Campion hardly heard him, but his voice, friendly and matter of fact at
his elbow, was very reassuring. He wondered how long he had known the
man and what degree of friendship was theirs. It seemed ridiculous to
think of it but they might be partners, or school-friends, or members of
the same profession.

They passed through the wrought-iron gates and, turning on to an old and
narrow pavement made of the thin rectangular flags of other days, they
came up to the entrance through which Campion had last seen Anscombe
disappear. There were several cars drawn up against the kerb and a
shadowy figure in uniform came out to challenge them.

While Hutch was talking to him, Campion grew acutely aware of Pyne. The
stocky man had become unnaturally still. He was standing on the pavement
looking up at one of the high stone pillars of the gateway which rose up
white in the moonlight.

“Interesting?” he murmured to Campion, and there was just a shade more
than the ordinary casual question in the remark.

Campion looked at the gate pillar and saw nothing more than the heraldic
leaden eagle on the top. It was a nice piece of period decoration but
too small and in no way remarkable.

“Charming,” he said politely and turned back to the man. The light was
deceptive but he thought he saw a gleam die out of the bright round
eyes.

The Superintendent’s minion had stepped aside by this time, however, and
the little procession moved on into the dark garden. Just before he
passed behind it Campion glanced at the pillar again. He caught it at an
angle and saw upon its smooth surface something he had not noticed
before. His heart jolted violently and once again all the old dark
anxiety, which was mingled with an exasperated yet fearful curiosity,
swept down on him, strangling him like a garotter’s scarf. In shallow
relief, and now outlined by the shadow which the angle gave it, the
house number showed up clearly. It was a 15.

Campion’s first reaction after the shock was one of complete relief and
his first impulse was to turn to Pyne as to a proven friend, a brother
in some misty conspiracy and the first man in whom he could confide, but
second thoughts brought misgivings. The dead man, Anscombe, had also
indicated that he attached some special significance to the number, and
he had not been a friend—or at least Amanda had not seemed to think so.
It occurred to Campion that he was pinning a lot of faith on to Amanda.
Pyne was friendly and evidently knew him well, perhaps even better than
the girl. He fancied he was accustomed to having many friends. He
decided to await his opportunity and put out a feeler on the subject.
God knew it was as well to go cautiously!

Just then there was not much time for investigation. As he entered the
drive Hutch crossed over to him and walked by his side, while, to his
intense discomfort, he found that the sergeant had come up at his other
elbow, separating him from Pyne.

“Just show us exactly what you did, sir.” Hutch spoke formally and it
occurred to Campion that the words were very familiar, as if he had
heard them many times before, which was absurd. He did what was required
of him and pointed out the exact spot in the corner of the doorstep
where he had deposited the bundle.

“It was not a big parcel,” he said. “It measured about six by five, I
should think. I took it that it was a couple of books.”

Hutch seemed satisfied. “You just went away without ringing,” he
remarked.

It occurred to Campion that the literal truth, which was that he
happened to be dressed up as a fireman and did not wish to be seen,
might be misunderstood, so he repeated his original story about the
hurry. The Superintendent made no comment.

“One does things like that every day,” said Pyne, obviously with only
the best intentions. “They only sound so jolly fishy when something
happens. You’re being damned mysterious, Superintendent. There’s no
question of foul play, is there?”

“There’s always a question, sir.” Hutch sounded reproachful. “I’d like
you to see him, Mr Campion. He’s been taken into the house. Lead the
way, will you, Sergeant?”

Even in his uncertain state Campion realized that the request was
extraordinary from a policeman to a layman. It seemed hardly likely that
Hutch had reverted to the ancient custom of confronting the suspected
murderer with the body of his supposed victim, and it went through
Campion’s mind for one wild moment that he might himself be some sort of
eminent pathologist, but he dismissed the theory immediately since the
idea conjured up no answering memory.

Yet, as they stood in the brightly-lit bedroom, overcrowded with
furniture and still full of the medicine bottles, books, and intimate
personal impedimenta of the dead man, again Campion was touched with
that sense of the familiar. He knew the scene was pathetic and expected
it to be so. Moreover, he felt no qualms as he looked down at the body
on the solid old-fashioned mahogany bed.

Anscombe was lying on his face and the pillows had been removed, so that
his head received no support. He was still clothed in the light raincoat
which he had worn in the car, and it and the suit beneath it had been
cut to facilitate an examination of the larger vertebrae.

The four men, Campion and the Superintendent, Pyne and the sergeant,
stood round the bed in complete silence. If Campion and the police were
stolid, Pyne was rattled. His heavy cheeks were several shades paler and
his paunch drooped. He whistled through his teeth.

“Horrible,” he said. “He’s broken his neck, hasn’t he? How on earth did
he do it?”

The Superintendent turned away from the sprawling body with the dreadful
unnatural angle of the head and looked at Campion earnestly.

“There’s a little bit of a lawn on the left of the drive,” he said. “I
don’t know if you noticed it? It’s very dark there, hidden from the road
by the wall. Well, in the middle of this lawn there’s a sort of
ornamental basin, a lily-pond I think they call it. It’s in a
saucer-shaped hollow and there’s a ring of very shallow brick and stone
steps leading down to the actual water. We found him on his back, lying
across the flight, if you see what I mean.”

“As if he’d slipped on the lowest step and hit the back of his neck on
the highest?” Campion put the question without noticing the clarity of
the picture in his mind.

“Exactly,” said Hutch and glanced meaningly at the body.

“What an astonishing thing to do!” The explosion came from Pyne. “In the
first place what was he there for?”

“That’s what we’re hoping to find out, sir,” said Hutch shortly and he
looked again at Campion, who, catching the expression in his eyes, could
not make up his mind if it was suspicion which he saw there or merely
anxious enquiry.

At any rate he did not let it bother him. At that particular moment he
had something even more alarming to consider. Ever since he had first
seen the body he had felt less lost and more sure of himself, as if the
dark curtain across his brain were already practically transparent, and
now it had come to him up out of the shadows, but with all the
conviction of certain knowledge, that he knew perfectly well how the man
had been killed and what the weapon was which had murdered him. He did
not attempt to argue with himself. He simply knew two things for facts,
just as he knew that milk was white and ink was black. He knew that
Anscombe had been struck from behind on the base of the skull by a man
of full height and considerable strength. The blow must have dislocated
the vertebrae and the actual cause of death was probably asphyxiation.
Moreover, the murderer must have been experienced: that was the
certainty which stood out in his mind. The murderer was an old hand, a
killer, a professional. As for the weapon, it must have been a length of
lead pipe, possibly stocking-covered since there was no mark on the
man’s collar.

Campion could see the thing quite distinctly in his mind, a long thin
murderous bludgeon bound with bicycle tape as like as not.

The Superintendent’s questioning eyes still resting upon him brought him
out of his reverie with a jerk and he felt his clothes clinging clammily
to his body as a possible solution to this new mystery presented itself.
Suppose he _had_ slugged the policeman? Suppose not only that, but that
he had also slugged Anscombe? That was what had happened to Anscombe all
right; he had been slugged.

Campion collected himself. It was absurd. He could not have done it.
Even if his mind was not playing him monstrous tricks he could not have
done it in the time. Amanda knew. Amanda had said distinctly that he had
come back at once.

The Superintendent was waiting, his comic country face as grave as a
judge’s.

“We found him on the steps,” he said. “The doctor’s still waiting to
think over his opinion. What would you say, Mr Campion?”

The younger man stood still, moistening his dry lips with the tip of his
tongue. At that moment, if it had not been for one thing, he would have
made a complete statement of his condition and the terrors crowding
through his head. The thing that prevented him was the letter in his
pocket. A glimpse of Pyne’s worried fat face had reminded him of it just
in time. Pyne must know. After that deliberate question about the 15 on
the gatepost, Pyne must know. He must get Pyne alone. He forced himself
to eye Hutch calmly. It was a touchy business, God knew, like handling
high-explosives in a fire.

“If Anscombe fell rigidly,” he said, “arching his back to regain his
balance, you know, then he just might have done it like that. Still,
we’re in the hands of the doctor, aren’t we?”

He could have bitten out his tongue for using that “we.” He had no idea
why he’d done it. The moment it left his lips it stuck out like a
signpost. However, if Hutch saw it he ignored it. He seemed relieved but
unhappy.

“Yes,” he said, sighing. “That about sizes it up. Would you care to see
the steps?”

Since he had clearly made up his mind to show them, there was no way of
avoiding the inspection, but as they crowded into the little pit of
darkness at the side of the house and stared by the light of muffled
torches at the meaningless jumble of stones and bricks, as unreal and
confusing as pantomime scenery in the unnatural glow, Campion edged
closer to Pyne. It was difficult to choose a sufficiently noncommittal
opening but at last he ventured a sighting shot.

“Not much like the old days,” he said heartily.

Pyne seemed engrossed with the exhibit, or at any rate he took some
seconds to reply. Then his cheerful murmur came briskly out of the
darkness.

“When we were in the States together, you mean?”

“Yes.” Campion did not wish to be drawn into any further reminiscences
until they had had time to talk, but it was not going to be so difficult
after all. They were old friends; that was the main thing.

His immediate hopes were defeated a minute or two later, however, when
they were all three walking back to the Principal’s house together. At
the Institute gates Pyne took his leave somewhat abruptly.

“I must get back at once,” he said. “You know what work is,
Superintendent, and you know where to find me if you want me, don’t you?
I’ll see you in the morning, Campion. This is a bad business, Super. I
believe it’s turned me up a bit. I’m a novice, you know. I feel like a
kid at the hunt who’s been blooded.”

He stumbled off down the road, the policeman looked after him and
laughed soundlessly.

“I’m afraid we’ve upset that stomach of his,” he said. “Serve him right
for nosing in. Look here, Mr Campion, I shan’t come back with you now
because I’ve got to wait for the Chief. I don’t know what’s delaying
him. He ought to have been here hours ago. I only came along here
because I wanted a word with you in private if I could get it. I wasn’t
quite accurate up at the house when I said we hadn’t found the parcel. I
wanted an excuse for getting hold of you. We had found it, of course,
just exactly where you’d put it. I didn’t want to go into it up there
because in some ways it’s rather peculiar, and I thought you might be
particularly interested. Do you know what it contained?”

He bent closer and a trick of the light gave his face a menace which it
did not normally possess.

“Close on four thousand pounds in cash,” he said softly. “I found it
interesting because we had another case earlier today in Coachingford
when a lot of money cropped up. It’s been a very funny business
altogether over there, with one of our fellows laid out and an unknown
in hospital. When I come along I’ll tell you about it.”

To Campion it seemed that the great starry arc of the sky above him
reeled over and back like the lid of a bacon dish, but if the
Superintendent knew what he said his game of cat and mouse was inhumanly
effective. He gave no sign of meaning more than his actual words, but
just before he turned on his heel and left his victim to go up the drive
alone he made one further remark which was, if anything, even more
annihilating than the first.

“I wonder at that fellow Pyne sticking to us like that,” he said
earnestly. “Curiosity seems to drive some people off their onion. He
only met you three days ago. He told me that himself last night. And he
doesn’t know me at all. You wouldn’t think any man would thrust himself
forward like that, would you? I’ll be seeing you later, then.”


                                   VI

“I’m afraid Hutch has let us down. It’s abominably late.”

Lee Aubrey broke a long silence with the remark, which he delivered with
an effort, as if he had been thinking of it for a long time. He,
Campion, and Amanda were sitting round the fire in the drawing-room with
the candles burning low and the uncomfortable silence of the night
bearing down upon them. They had been there for perhaps an hour. Campion
had returned from Anscombe’s house just as the dinner guests were
leaving and had found himself let in for a more or less formal
_tête-à-tête_, his host the one person in the way.

He was more than anxious to talk to Amanda alone. Every time he set eyes
on her she became clearer and clearer to him. Whatever other values were
upset, whatever other mistakes he made in this new nightmare world of
his, she was real and solid, a living part of that self which he was
rediscovering so painfully.

She was sitting curled up in her chair between the two of them, very
much alive but gloriously composed. She looked very young and very
intelligent, but not, he thought with sudden satisfaction, clever. A
dear girl. _The_ girl, in fact. His sense of possession was tremendous.
It was the possessiveness of the child, of the savage, of the dog,
unreasonable and unanswerable. He glanced irritably at Aubrey.

The great man had risen and was leaning against the mantelpiece. He was
frowning at first but then once more that little smile of tolerant
self-contempt curled his narrow lips. Suddenly he laughed.

“Well,” he said, “we’ve thrashed it all out, haven’t we? Anscombe
appears to have fallen down and broken his neck: that’s all it amounts
to. I’ll go up and see poor old Miss Anscombe in the morning. Until
Hutch condescends to report we can’t do anything else. You look
fantastically tired, my dear fellow. Why don’t you go to bed? Amanda and
I will give the wretched Hutch another half hour. Don’t you think so?”

The final question was put directly to Amanda and as he looked at her
his expression softened so much that the change was positively
theatrical. However, he seemed quite unconscious of betraying himself
and it was as if he were not in the habit of considering himself
objectively ever.

Amanda avoided his eyes and might almost, for the light was deceptive,
have blushed. Her involuntary behaviour seemed to annoy her, however,
for she looked at him squarely.

“Very well,” she said.

Campion sat up. In the ordinary way he might well have been startled,
for there are few hosts who send their guests to bed so blandly, but
now, in his confused state, he was bewildered. Aubrey had spoken with
authority, like—yes, that was it—like royalty, or a headmaster; not
with rudeness, but as if he had special privileges.

At first Campion had every intention of refusing baldly and of forcing
himself upon them, but Amanda swept the remaining ground from under his
feet.

“Good night, Albert,” she said.

He went up to his room and sat on his bed with the door open, as if he
were a schoolboy in the throes of a first love affair. Until that moment
he had not properly assimilated her announcement of earlier in the
evening. So many things had happened since then and the dreamlike
quality of his new existence had seemed to allow of lightning changes of
front and back. Now, again, it returned to him that Amanda was real,
and, being real, she was consistent, the one concrete thing in a world
of fantasy. She meant what she said. She was not going to marry him.
Beside this actual disaster all the other inconsistencies—the mad
cat-and-mouse behavior of the police, the too friendly Pyne who had
tricked him into a betrayal and then disappeared on heaven knew what
tortuous and subversive mission—faded into fantasy. On the top of his
blinding desolation crept a new fear. It was a fear for Amanda. It
occurred to him that it was the first completely unselfish thought he
had had since the disaster, or, of course, ever in his life for all he
knew. It was linked with something he knew about her, some vulnerability
he had forgotten, and with something he knew about Aubrey. There was
something from which he must protect her. She was a responsibility of
his, quite as much a responsibility as that other which was rapidly
assuring such enormous proportions. Apparently he was a responsible
person. It seemed a pity he had lost half his mind.

He got off the bed and walked out into the upper hall. He strode up and
down there for what seemed an eternity, his footsteps deadened by the
heavy carpet. The lights were very bright, with the cold brilliance
which seems to be a part of the middle of the night, and when the
drawing-room door opened he walked over to the banister without
hesitation and looked down.

“Good night, Amanda.”

Aubrey’s deep delightful voice was soft and packed with meaning. He was
leaning against the doorpost with his head bent and a lock of his thick
hair drooping boyishly forward. He had taken Amanda’s hand and was
swinging it backwards and forwards in the careless inarticulate fashion
which Gerald du Maurier used to use so effectively in so many of his
scenes. He was not a man who would ever appear handsome, but his whole
pose was negligently graceful, which was odd in such a large-boned
loosely constructed figure.

Campion got the impression that Amanda was a trifle flustered and also
that the condition was hitherto unknown to her.

“Good night, Lee,” she said, sounding positively schoolgirlish in an
effort to be matter-of-fact. Then, turning away, she hurried upstairs,
to arrive pink and a little breathless before Campion in the upper hall.

She was astounded to see him and obviously accepted the first
explanation which came into her head.

“What’s the matter?” she demanded. “What’s happened?”

“I want to talk to you.”

“All right. What is it? I say, nothing else awful, surely?” She appeared
to expect disaster and hurried into his room as if she thought to find
concrete evidence of it there.

He followed her and closed the door. Had there been bolts upon it he
would have shot them.

“There’s one thing you’ve got to tell me,” he said. “I’ve been trying to
find out all the evening.”

“What?”

“What day is it?”

She stared at him. Her light brown eyes were wide with astonishment at
first, but as he looked at her the fine brows came down in a straight
line above them and the fiery colour spread over her face.

“Did you hang about on the staircase simply to ask me that? You’re
behaving rather extraordinarily, aren’t you?”

He was, of course. He saw that the moment she pointed it out. To the
uninstructed his behaviour and the all-important question could have
only one explanation; that he was acting like a jealous child. He felt
unreasonably angry with her for his own helplessness.

“I want to know the day and the date of today,” he said doggedly.
“You’re the only person I dare ask. What is it?”

“It’s the thirteenth, I think.” She was furious, and the dignity which
her control lent her was the coldest thing on earth.

“Friday, I suppose?”

“No. Tuesday. Now I think I’ll go to bed.”

Tuesday the thirteenth. That meant Thursday the fifteenth. A day. A day
to do what?

Amanda moved over towards the door. He thought she was going out without
a word and was helpless to stop her. He was completely unprepared,
therefore, for what was evidence of one of the most lovable traits in
her make-up. On the threshold she turned and quite suddenly grinned at
him.

“I’ve gone all theatrical, Albert,” she said. “What is up?”

He groaned. “God knows,” he said truly.

Amanda came back into the room and sat down on the edge of the bed.

“Are you all right?” she demanded. “Don’t forget you have had a dust-up.
I don’t want to fuss you—I know how you hate it—but you do look a bit
green, you know. I’ve noticed it all the evening and haven’t liked to
mention it.”

He cocked an eye at her. That was a piece of his own character slipping
into place. He was one of those men with a horror of being fussed, was
he? Yes, that was right; he felt he might be like that. She hadn’t liked
to fuss him. She was pretty marvellous. A great surge of desire for
comfort from her broke over him. She was alive. She was his only link
with reality. It was on his tongue to risk everything and come out with
the awful truth when her next remark silenced him.

“I’m sorry I behaved so badly. I’ve got a bit self-centred. I thought
you were playing the fool because I was falling in love with Lee.” She
spoke without any affectation and was free from any suggestion of the
coyly blunt. Her eyes were as candid as her words.

“Are you?”

“I think so.” There was a quiet softness in her voice, a gentle
satisfaction which he knew he had never heard in it before.

“Why?”

She hesitated and finally laughed. “It’s a thing I couldn’t possibly
tell you if you weren’t yourself,” she said, “I mean if I didn’t know
you as well as I know myself almost. He’s like you, isn’t he?”

“Is he?”

“I think so, very. Except for the one important thing.”

“What’s that?”

She looked up at him and there was a sort of rueful shyness in her young
face.

“He loves me so. He’s doing his best about it but it’s bubbling out all
over him and making him shy and silly, like an undergraduate or a
peasant or something. And since he’s a great man—because he is
brilliant, you know—well, that makes it pretty irresistible.” She
paused and shook herself. “Let’s not discuss it. It’s not a bit in your
line and things are getting up speed, aren’t they? I feel disgusted with
myself for getting—er—overtaken by this thing, but it’s like that. It
does—er—overtake. Tell me about Anscombe.”

“He was murdered.”

“What?” She sat staring at him. “But that’s impossible! Who?”

“I don’t know.”

Amanda clasped her knees and her heart-shaped face looked small and
worried as she rested her chin on them.

“Of course, I’m not competent to judge anything in this business,” she
said unexpectedly, “since I don’t know the full strength.”

“My dear,” he said with elaborate deference, because he was still
tingling from the blow which seemed to have hurt the secret forgotten
part of himself even more than his conscious needy present, “I only wish
I could tell you.”

“Yes, well, you can’t,” she said briefly. “You’re under oath and that’s
final. I don’t mind. I know you well enough to work under sealed orders.
Otherwise I’d hardly have done the unforgivable thing and got Lee to
invite us down here without telling him you were working on something in
the town. I’ve got your assurance that it’s desperately important;
that’s good enough.”

Campion was standing with his back to her and did not dare look round.

“Let’s see,” he said mendaciously, “how long have we known Lee?”

“You mean how long have I known him,” objected Amanda. “You’ve known him
three days, as you very well know. I came down here from Dell on some
work on the new armour for the Seraphim planes. There was a man working
at the Institute we had to get hold of. I made friends with Lee then.”

She was talking gibberish, apart from the all-important dates, as far as
Campion was concerned, and he wondered how far he dared press her for
information. Fortunately she helped him unconsciously.

“Have you told anyone about the hospital episode this afternoon?”

“No.”

“Nor have I. And I was thinking, Albert, I don’t suppose Anscombe did.
So suppose we stick to our original plan, which is, if you remember,
that I took you into Coachingford on Sunday night to catch the London
express. That was immediately after you had the wire which was waiting
for you when we arrived. Then yesterday I was supposed to fetch you from
the same station after your return. At dinner tonight I was very vague
about our delay, but it was a sticky gathering anyway and didn’t matter.
Still, if it does come up we’ll have to call it tyre trouble. How’s
that?”

“Excellent,” he said dubiously and waited for her to continue.

“How did you get on at Coachingford?” she enquired at last.

He shrugged his shoulders and she nodded gloomily.

“Like that?” she said. “Never mind. It’ll come suddenly. I don’t like
this Anscombe business, though. That’s horrible. Just when we thought he
knew something.”

He turned on her. “What made you think he knew something?”

“I don’t know. I just got that impression.”

“Not—‘fifteen’?”

“Fifteen?” She seemed surprised. “Fifteen what?”

“Fifteen men on a dead man’s chest,” he said and half wondered if he had
invented the ringing phrase.

“Yo-ho-ho and some nice sound sleep,” said Amanda. “You can’t do any
more tonight, anyway, if the whole world’s at stake. You go to bed.”

Campion leant heavily on the back of the chair which he had been
fingering. His wooden face was haggard and he looked tired and
frustrated.

“My God, I wonder if it is,” he said.

She gave the question serious consideration.

“It seems a bit presumptuous, but it might be,” she said.

Campion felt the beads of sweat break out on the line where his forehead
met his hair.

“That’s the kind of damned silly premonition I’ve got,” he said.

Amanda smiled at him. “If it is, I’d rather it was in your hands than
anybody’s,” she said honestly. “You’ve got all the cards, Albert, and
fundamentally you’re so . . .”

“So what?”

“So sort of sufficient at heart. So cold. You’ll get by.”

After she had gone he sat very still in the silent room and the strong
light beat down upon him with chilly clarity. The warmth had gone out of
the dream again and he was back in the familiar nightmare. He knew what
it was like now. It was like one of those trick films wherein familiar
objects are photographed from an unfamiliar angle. The strange shadows
thus cast made vast secret shapes, forming a horror where there is none
and, worse still, concealing a horror where horror lies.

Now that Amanda had gone he wondered why he had not confided in her. It
was not only because of Lee and because he dreaded her pity as he
dreaded insufferable pain. There was another reason. He reached down
into the darkness in his mind and drew it out from its skulking place in
all its hideousness. It was a fear. If she knew of his mental state, if
she knew of that overheard conversation in the hospital, and had it
presented to her with the facts as they both knew them about Anscombe’s
death, then would she still regard him with that candid trust which was
the most precious thing about her? Or would the gleam of a doubt come
creeping into her brown eyes before her loyalty doused it? That was the
risk he had not dared to take. He was the man involved and he would not
entirely trust himself.

The whistle cut into his thoughts. The low note, which was just
sufficiently unlike a bird’s to be uncanny, sounded twice before it
brought him to his feet. He switched out the light and stood listening.
It sounded again just beneath the window.

He pulled the heavy curtains aside, unlatched the old-fashioned
shutters, and threw up the sash as quickly as he could.

The whistle began and ended suddenly and there was a long silence. The
house cast a deep shadow and the space below the window was black as the
pit.

“Is that you, sir?” The voice was very quiet and almost directly beneath
him. “Are you ready? I’ve been waiting round the other side. I must have
mistook your meaning. We’ll have to get a move-on if we’re to get the
job done tonight. Can you come at once?”

“What? Yes, yes, all right, I’ll be with you in a moment.” Campion drew
in his head, closed the windows, and replaced its various shroudings.
Then he went downstairs with the soft-footed tread of a professional
burglar. In his mind was a single unqualified question-mark, for the
voice had been the utterly unmistakable one of Superintendent Hutch.


                                  VII

Campion came out of the front doorway noiselessly. He picked his way
over the gravel to the silent turf of the lawn and stood waiting. If
this was arrest the whole world was as light-headed as he was.

The Superintendent’s jaunty figure emerged from the black shadows round
the house and dropped into step beside him. He did not speak, but,
taking Campion’s arm, led him into the narrow line of darkness below the
row of close-growing poplars which lined one side of the path. He walked
very fast and did not open his mouth until they were a good two hundred
yards from the window. Finally he sighed.

“Very nicely done, sir,” he said with approval. “I didn’t know you had
come out until I set eyes on you. It’s as well to be careful. We don’t
want to give a lot of fancy explanations. Once you start that game, it’s
my experience that you have to go on remembering what you’ve said for
years afterwards.”

Campion made no specific comment. He grunted noncommittally and pressed
on towards the gateway.

As he had hoped, Hutch continued to talk. He revealed a friendly soul
and a justifiable pride in his rise to eminence in the force.

“That’s why I’m doing this little job myself,” he remarked. “It’s not
that I haven’t got half a dozen men I could trust to be both efficient
and discreet, but I don’t want them to take the risk, don’t you see?
When it’s something unorthodox and a little delicate it’s the Chief’s
job every time. Don’t you agree?”

“Oh, every time,” said Campion heartily. He wondered where in God’s name
they were going with such determined speed.

They turned away from Anscombe’s house at the end of the drive and
plunged off downhill in the opposite direction. Hutch kept to the
shadowed side of the street and his long strides were silent as a
ghost’s. Most English country towns are picturesque in the moon’s eye,
but this winding hill was like a part of an old fairy story in the cold
yellowish light. Tudor shops with overhanging upper storeys and windows
like those on a galleon squeezed prim Queen Anne houses which wore
shutters and graceful fanlights. There were mounting blocks and lantern
posts at every dozen yards, and through carved archways occasional
glimpses of cobbled courts and stone gardens. It was probably the most
hackneyed picture-postcard subject in the world, but Campion saw it with
the eyes of a child and its charm startled him. The crazy roofs were
like witches’ hoods huddling together for whispered consultations and
the dark windows winked their panes at him from a bygone world.

Meanwhile the Superintendent’s silence became oppressive and Campion
ventured a leading question.

“Why exactly is this trip so delicate?”

“Perhaps that isn’t the word I ought to have used.” Hutch seemed a
little put out and for a moment Campion was afraid that he had silenced
him.

As they turned across a wide market square which might well have
decorated any calendar the policeman opened out a little.

“I don’t like to talk under windows,” he said. “In a place like this
everyone knows your voice, let alone your life story. You don’t quite
understand the position of the Masters in this town, do you?”

“No,” said Campion truthfully, “I’m afraid I don’t. Most of the offices
are hereditary, aren’t they?”

“All of them.” Hutch appeared to respect the fact. “It’s a very
interesting survival,” he announced, a touch of the professional guide
creeping into his voice and mixing oddly with the confidential police
low-down which was his natural manner. “Their records go back nearly
five hundred years. This is the only example of what you might virtually
call a free city in the British Isles—other than London, of course.
We’re in a funny position, you see, stuck here on a navigable river
which yet isn’t quite big enough to make us a port.”

“Yes, of course,” Campion held his breath. They were half-way across the
Square now and in a moment or two windows would be over their heads
again.

“That fellow Pyne,” said Hutch, “he called the Masters a glorified
municipal council, you may remember. So he can, but if he realized how
glorified they are he’d keep his mouth shut like the rest of us. Do you
know, Mr Campion, there’s not a man in this town selling so much as a
packet of cigarettes who doesn’t do his business solely at the direct
discretion of the Masters? They’re kings, that’s what they are, little
kings. Between ’em they own the whole place and the Institute makes ’em
rich. Why do you think there’s no cinema in the whole of Bridge? Because
the Masters don’t want to alter the character of the town. They own the
land, they appoint the magistrates, they control the licences, and it’s
their say-so. Same with the trippers. You’ll never see a charabanc in
Bridge although it’s the most famous beauty spot in the whole of the
south-west. The Masters don’t want charabancs. They know their
townsfolk. In fact they are their townsfolk. They’re all related—the
whole town is related—and charabancs aren’t allowed.”

He paused in his stride and lowered his voice.

“Of course, being so old and so rich and having all the ancient
ceremonial and secrecy and so on, it makes them very powerful. They’ve
got such a pull. They always put up a Member of Parliament and they
subsidize a Chair at one of the Universities—oh, they’ve got a finger
in all sorts of pies! They’re thick as thieves with the Government and
in fact I shouldn’t be a bit surprised if they weren’t one of the most
powerful bodies in the whole country in their own quiet way.”

“Quiet.” Campion repeated the word aloud unconsciously. It was coming
back to him, or rather it was all there now. He knew it all, just behind
the shadows in his mind. The Superintendent’s urgent words were like a
new facet on some old stone which he knew well.

Hutch snorted. “They’re quiet all right,” he said. “There’s never been a
meeting of theirs discussed at a tea-table, let alone reported in the
press. It’s amazing what you can keep quiet if it’s in your interest to
do so. That’s why I called our little job tonight delicate. We haven’t
got too much time either. This way, sir. It’s quicker.”

He took Campion’s arm again as he spoke and drew him down a narrow
alleyway between two dark houses whose sugarloaf roofs bowed to each
other overhead.

“This brings us out directly into the Nag’s Pykle,” he said. “Round
here.”

Another sharp turn brought them out into the open moonlight again and
Campion, still with his new child’s eyes, was brought up short before
what is perhaps one of the most dramatic natural pictures in England.

A broad road, still paved and flanked with squat houses, rises slowly to
the Corn Exchange and the Nag’s Head Inn. The hostelry, fourth oldest in
the country, is three storeys high and its centre gable, gallant but
drunken, leans appreciably westward, lending the whole structure a note
of ancient and irresponsible festivity both laughable and endearing.
Behind this, and behind the Corn Exchange and the low tower of St
Nicholas’s Church, stands the Nag itself. The bare hill rises up stark
and unexpected, like the head of the giant horse it is said to resemble.
It is threadbare limestone and is entirely naked save for the double
line of ragged pine trees on the crest which in Bridge are called The
Mane. In broad sunlight it is impressive and even menacing, but that
night, by the moon, it was breath-taking.

Even the Superintendent was tempted to comment.

“Extraordinary formation,” he observed. “When you come on it like this
you can almost believe the old tale about the bridge. You know that one,
don’t you? Oh well, if you don’t, it’s interesting,” he added with some
satisfaction. “It shows you how far back the name of the town goes.
There’s the river mouth behind there, as you know, and that other hill
on the opposite bank is called The Manger. It’s got a big hollow in the
top. You can see it on a clear day. The story goes that there was a
great flood here once that cut the town right off from the mainland.
There was a terrible famine and no one could put out in a boat because
of the storms. Right at the last moment, when everyone was practically
dead, the Mayor—or local saint or somebody—said his prayers extra
strong and lo! and behold, “with a roar like a million drums,” the Nag
raised his head and shot out his great neck and put his nose in The
Manger over on the other side of the river. Those who were still strong
enough ran along his mane and brought back food for the rest. The Nag
kept his head in The Manger until the floods went down and then one
night, when everything was quiet and everyone was asleep, like it might
be tonight, he drew it very quietly back again. That’s the legend of how
the town got its name, and there’s certainly no bridge in the place
except the little humpbacked one down by the mill on the Coachingford
road.”

He laughed a trifle self-consciously.

“I always think of it when I come along here at night,” he said. “I like
that bit about the ‘roar like a million drums.’ You can just imagine it,
can’t you? I don’t know that there’s much moral to the tale, unless it’s
that the Nag looks after Bridge. So he does, of course, to this day.
Very much so. But it’s remarkable how an old tale like that gets handed
down. I wonder you hadn’t heard it. It’s very well known. One of the big
composers wrote a bit of music about it. Holst, was it?”

Campion said nothing. The story, coupled with the unexpected sight, was
strangely moving. He knew he must be hearing it much as a savage might,
or as the early unsophisticated inhabitants of the town must have done.
It was damnably convincing. He felt quite a thrill of superstitious
fear.

Meanwhile, the Superintendent’s attitude towards himself was growing
more incomprehensible at every step. He was friendly, not to say
obliging, and, moreover, the further they came the less certain of
himself he appeared to be. But where they were going so fast and so
secretly remained a complete and utter mystery.

Campion was naturally tempted to begin careful pumping operations, but
he was alive to all the dangers. He knew so little about anything at all
that the most innocent remark could easily prove a disaster. He ventured
one little feeler.

“Mr Aubrey rather expected you to come along earlier this evening,” he
said.

“I daresay he did, sir.” Hutch became an official again. “I had one or
two things to see to. I’d hardly left Mr Anscombe’s house when something
else cropped up.”

“Oh?” Campion tried to show interest without anxiety and the
Superintendent rose to the fly.

“I had a call from Coachingford,” he said briefly. “They’re having a bit
of a man-hunt all round here tonight. As far as I could get it on the
telephone the case seems to have all the usual features, but it’s a
worry in war-time. There was the stolen car abandoned on the high road
and all the rest of it. They’ll pick him up in the morning when they can
see what they’re doing. They’re circulating a full description . . .
here we are, sir, this way.”

The final announcement was providential, since it covered Campion for
the necessary moment. He had started like a cat, he noticed with
concern, and he had a conviction that his nerves were not usually so
unreliable.

They had passed the Inn now and had taken a side turning which ran round
the eastern base of the Nag. This street was particularly ancient and
here the buildings hung together, shrinking into the very sides of the
hill. The shop before which Hutch had paused was a grocery and in its
bow windows the familiar cartons of breakfast food, condensed milk, and
sugar substitutes looked ridiculous. Such a place should have sold love
philtres at least.

The Superintendent took Campion’s elbow and led him into a minute alley
which ran down between the shop and its neighbour. This passage was so
narrow that they could not walk abreast and at one point, where the wall
bulged, there was scarcely space for Campion’s shoulders. Hutch was
treading like a hunter. His tall figure passed like a shadow and his
feet made no noise. Campion followed him with equal technique.

At the end of the alley they came into a yard. It was little more than a
well, with the Nag rising sheer on one side and the building crowding
down upon them on the other.

Hutch produced a torch no larger than a rifle cartridge. Its pin-point
beam lit up a keyhole in a surprisingly modern door set in an ancient
frame. A short key slid into position and the lock turned over. They
passed inside into the spicy, slightly rancid atmosphere of a storeroom.
Campion followed the Superintendent blindly. His passage now had all the
actual qualities of dreaming. He had no idea where he was and the velvet
dark was warm and faintly anaesthetic.

They seemed to go on walking for some time and his impression was that
they were following a narrow path amid all kinds of obstacles. Another
door brought them to a flight of wooden stairs and a surprising change
of atmosphere. It was still warm, but the air now smelt of paper and
floor-polish and the gentle, exciting odour of old wood. It was a long
climb and Hutch began to relax some of his elaborate caution.

“We’re right in the hill now,” he said unexpectedly. “You wouldn’t think
it, would you? We’ll go right on up to the Council Chamber, shall we?
There’s nothing much down here.”

“By all means.” Campion spoke absently. He was struggling with
incredulity. “Where are we?” he demanded, throwing caution to the winds.
“In the Town Hall?”

Hutch laughed. He seemed to take the question as a witticism.

“That’s about the size of it, really, isn’t it?” he said. “The Masters
run the show in Bridge, not the officials in Basket Street. At one time,
you know this used to be the only administrative headquarters in the
town. I believe they used to hold the courts in the Council Chamber.
It’s very interesting if you’re keen on ancient history. The whole place
is formed from the natural caves in the hill. The air shafts are
artificial but they’re prehistoric. You’ll be impressed by the room.
I’ve only been in it once, and that was last year when I had to come up
before the society and make a report. The carving is remarkable, I
believe, to those who know.”

“Is this the only entrance?” enquired Campion faintly.

“Not likely.” Hutch paused in his stride. “You know about that, surely?
Excuse me, sir, but don’t you know your guidebook? I thought everyone
knew about the Doors of Bridge, as they call them. It’s one of the
features of the place. It’s my opinion that it’s those four doors which
give the Masters their peculiar fanciful quality. After all, there’s
nothing extraordinary in an ancient body meeting in a room built in a
hill. In the old days it served as a fortress, and stood a long siege in
the Jacobite rebellion. But those four doors, each one marked by an
innocent-looking house, give it a sort of romantic touch, if you see
what I mean.”

“What houses?” enquired Campion, who appeared to have given up
subterfuge.

“Well, there’s the pub for one.” Hutch was torn between astonishment and
delight at the discovery of such ignorance. “The old Nag’s Head is built
across the main door. You can see it in the back room, a lovely bit of
carved wood. Takes up all one side. That’s the ceremonial entrance where
the Masters go in on a meeting night. Then there’s the Gate House, where
Mr Peter Lett lives. He’s the hereditary gate-keeper. That door leads
out of his drawing-room and isn’t often used. His house is round the
other side, in the Haymarket Road. The third door is off the Rectory.
It’s a sort of gallery there, next to the Church. And the fourth lies
behind the Wain House, farther off down the street. Mr Phillips, who is
the hereditary groom, lives there. It’s all very old-world and out of
the ordinary, if you come to it new, but of course when you’re used to
it as we are you don’t see anything in it. It’s just a custom, that’s
all.”

Campion felt an absurd desire to sit down on the stairs. He wondered
vaguely if all ancient history sounded as picturesque as this when it
was heard for the first time, and, if so, if most children lived in this
perpetual state of astonishment.

“We came in by a fifth door, then,” he murmured.

“We came in by the back door,” said Hutch firmly. “Not many people know
about it and I daresay it’s comparatively recent—not above seventy
years old perhaps. Like everybody else the Masters have to have cleaners
and they have to have goods delivered. I imagine they must have bought
the shop at some period and installed a caretaker there. It’s an
old-fashioned business. It’s been in the same family for years. I came
in that way tonight because it seemed safest. I don’t want to have to
give a lot of explanations and I’m sure you don’t. This is the last
step, sir. Now to your right.”

He produced a larger torch as he spoke and Campion was startled by the
height of the gallery in which they stood. It seemed to have no ceiling
but to go on up and up into infinity. There was a pleasant dull sound of
wood on wood, a faint squeak from a protesting hinge, and then a great
rush of cool air as they passed into the room within.

Hutch swept a broad beam of light round them and Campion stepped back.
The place was enormous. It was churchlike and colossal. He received a
confused impression of black panelling, the lower halves of mighty
pictures, full-length portraits of heroic size, and, overhead, canopies
of ragged banners, still bright and gallant after their passage down the
centuries. The centre-piece turned out somewhat tamely to be a table. It
was a mighty affair of glistening black oak and is fitted snugly on a
carpet which must have been very nearly the size of a tennis court, but
apart from this it was normal enough and almost ordinary. Twenty-five
chairs encircled it and at the head, before a seat larger than the
others, was a pile of papers and a very prosaic speaker’s water-bottle
and glass.

The silence was remarkable. It hung over them like a smothering pall.
There was not a breath anywhere, not a crackle of shrinking wood, not a
scurry of dust upon the stone floor, nothing. Hutch sighed deeply. It
was evident that he was about to make some pronouncement and Campion
nerved himself to meet whatever might be coming.

The man’s words when they arrived, however, took him completely by
surprise.

“Well, sir.” He sounded a trifle breathless. “Here you are. I’ve risked
my warrant to get us in and I hope you’ll forgive me if I say for God’s
sake get whatever you have to do done as soon as possible, so we can get
out before the light. I don’t like to think what would happen if we got
caught. No one would lift a finger for us. But you know that even better
than I do, I expect.”


                                  VIII

Campion did not move. The actor who drives up centre-stage in the middle
of the big scene, and who stands there blankly with the urgent silence
growing more acute at every second, feels much as he did then.

His first coherent thought was even more terrifying, however. Since he
had evidently engineered this illegal entry himself, and had apparently
persuaded a Superintendent of Police to break the dearest law in the
British Constitution in order to achieve it, it must obviously have some
vital importance and he himself must possess much more than ordinary
influence. There was something he had to do here, more probably
something he had to find out, and there was no knowing what stupendous
matters hung upon his success. Already it was long past midnight. The
morning of the fourteenth had begun. The fifteenth, as far as he knew,
was zero-hour.

It came to him that he must lay his cards on the table and take the
consequences. He turned to Hutch, prepared to speak, but as the first
difficult words formed in his mind the Superintendent began again.

“I don’t like to criticize,” he said, his apology making the reproach a
hundred times more poignant in the circumstances, “and I know men in
your position have to keep their mouths shut, but, just as a question of
policy, don’t you think it would have made things a lot easier if your
department had seen fit to trust the Chief Constable and myself with
just a little more information? You can see how it is. We’re quite
blindfold, aren’t we? We’re instructed to give you every assistance,
every assistance no matter what you ask, and so we will, but it would
make things simpler if we had a glimmer of what you were up to.”

He paused hopefully but, when the man before him did not reply, went on
earnestly.

“Look at that business this evening, for instance. I haven’t been in the
Force for close to thirty years without being able to recognize a corpse
which has been slugged when I see one. But what am I to do? There’s a
ready-made loophole there and we’ve got a young doctor. If I shut down
on the enquiry I can let the whole investigation collapse without any
trouble. But am I right in doing that? Is it in the country’s interest
or is it nothing to do with the case? I don’t know. I’m asking you. I’m
in the dark. I gave you every opportunity but you didn’t give me any
lead.”

Campion pulled himself up as the solid ground gave way at his very feet.

“I can’t tell you,” he said helplessly. “Don’t you understand? I am
simply unable to tell you.”

Hutch stiffened. He was like a soldier at attention.

“Very good, sir,” he said. “I’m in your hands. Carry on.”

Campion took the torch from him and advanced towards the table. It
seemed the obvious thing to do. As he came up to it its enormous size
became more apparent and panic seized him as he looked across that vast
expanse of shining wood. It was so empty, so utterly uninformative.

He glanced towards the papers neatly arranged before the main chair and
experienced his first ray of hope. They were not all the usual blanks.
On the top of the pile was a fold of foolscap neatly headed “Agenda.”
Anscombe had done his last duty for the Masters.

By the light of the torch he read the list of items down for discussion
at the morrow’s meeting. It began archaically enough with “_Prayers to
Almighty God_” and went on to the orthodox “_Senior Master’s Opening
Remarks_,” “_Minutes of the Last Meeting_,” and “_Correspondence_.” But
the third entry was more unusual. “_Ceremony of the Bale of Straw_,” it
stated simply, and continued, as though the one were the counterpart of
the other, “_Report on the New Sewage System for the Lower Town,
temporarily suspended by War_.” The “_Institute Report_” followed and
the fifth item recorded “_Extraordinary Council: Resignation of John
Robert Anscombe, Secretary_.”

The sixth heading brought Campion up short, his brows rising as he read
the round characterless copperplate.

“_Suggested Purchase from the Government of the French_,” it ran
briefly. “_Spice Island of Malaguama. 950,000,000 francs._”

This somewhat staggering project brought him to the foot of the page and
he turned it casually, unprepared for any further statement, but there,
staring at him and in the same childish hand, was yet another
consideration for the Masters of Bridge.

“_Main business of the Evening_,” he read and saw underneath it, in a
large carelessly drawn circle in red ink, the haunting figures 15.

Below were two further lines, clearly referring to some traditional
closing ceremony: “(1) _The Oath_” and “(2) _The Toast Sec. 5. Perish
All Those Who Doe Wrong Unto Us._”

He refolded the sheet, put it back into position, and stepped back. His
knees were trembling. It was all here, he felt certain, all under his
hand, and yet he could not recognize it. The other half of the talisman
was lying just out of his reach in the monstrous darkness of his own
brain.

Hutch remained stiffly at his side. Campion could feel that the man was
uneasy, alarmed at the enormity of his own share in storming this sacred
fastness.

Campion peered round him in the gloom.

“There are other rooms, of course?”

“This is the only actual habitable room, sir. The others are only
caverns. They go right on down to the Trough.”

“The Trough?”

“Yes, sir. That’s the local name of the big cave on the estuary bay. It
runs a long way under the hill and the old river road leads past it. At
one time it used to be a great place for picnics and so on, but the
water comes right up to the entrance at high tide and there were so many
cases of people getting caught down there that the Masters declared it
shut and ran a railing across the entrance, which isn’t very wide. A
place like that gets very dirty and untidy if you leave it open to the
public.”

“I suppose so. Can you get down to it from here?”

“I don’t know, sir. No one’s allowed in here, you see. I don’t think you
can. As far as I know you can get on to a sort of gallery which looks
down into the Trough, but I don’t think there’s any way down from that.
When I was a boy we used to dare each other to get up into the Masters’
storerooms, but it was a terrific climb and you needed a rope. We never
got very far.”

“I see. I’d like to go on a bit, though. Is that possible?”

“It’s possible, sir.” Hutch did not add that it was also insane in his
opinion, with the seconds racing by so dangerously.

A new doggedness had come over Campion and he hunched his shoulders.

“We’ll have to risk it,” he said.

Hutch was an experienced man and he worked quickly, but it was not an
easy adventure since he was as ignorant of the geography of the place as
was Campion, and their first need was to get out of the Council Chamber
without stumbling inadvertently through any one of the Four Doors of
Bridge.

They found the way by considering the formation of the cavern in which
the chamber was set and came at first to an astonishingly efficient
furnace-room with a chimney built up through a prehistoric airshaft in
the hill. From there they passed on into a passage which had been
roughly lined at some much earlier period, and thence an iron ladder
took them down into the Masters’ storerooms.

These long caverns were unexpectedly well ventilated and confirmed
Campion’s suspicions that the whole Nag was nothing less than a
fortress, probably dating back to Neolithic times.

A brief inspection disclosed that the main use to which the Masters put
their space was the storage of wine. The first gallery contained rack
after rack of dusty black bottles and a smile appeared on the
Superintendent’s strained face as he looked at them.

“They must have done themselves proud for generations,” he said. “I bet
there’s a fortune here. As a matter of fact they do own vineyards all
over the world, I’ve heard.”

Campion did not comment.

At the end of the gallery the entrance to the next cavern was small and
had been boarded up at some time. Hutch ran his torch beam over the
edges of the torn wood lying in a neat pile on the uneven floor.

“This hasn’t been down long,” he remarked. “They’ve been making room for
more liquor, I suppose.”

It certainly looked like it. It seemed hardly credible, but the thin
shafts from the Superintendent’s two torches disclosed pile upon pile of
small packing cases, each sealed and labelled with a grower’s name and
burnt with the same hieroglyphics. Most of it appeared to be hock and it
was clear that the Masters had had the forethought to see that no
European upheaval could interfere with their serious drinking.

Hutch gasped. “There’s a cargo of it,” he said, sounding thoroughly
shocked. “A perishing cargo. Hallo, sir, what’s the matter?”

Campion had paused in the middle of a step. His body had become rigid
and he stood immovable, his head raised.

“Listen,” he whispered.

Hutch became a rock. He had extinguished his torch and now both men
waited in the suffocating darkness which filled the world about them
like black wool.

“What was it, sir?” The Superintendent’s agonized demand was only just
audible.

“A petrol engine. Listen.”

Very faint, so muffled that it was more of a sensation than a sound, the
throbbing reached them.

“It’s beneath us,” said Campion briefly. “Come on.”

“Sir . . .” Hutch was a good man and he knew his duty, but there is one
State Department which does not recognize its servants if they make
mistakes. He did not belong to it and thirty years’ blameless record was
at stake.

“Give me the torches. You stay where you are.” It occurred to Campion
briefly that it was odd that he should issue orders so naturally and
should be so certain that they would be unquestioningly obeyed. He went
on alone, moving like a wraith but very quickly, with a sure-footed
stealth which betrayed long practice. He did not see the second iron
ladder until he was almost upon it, and he paused with his heart in his
mouth, peering down into the abyss.

The throbbing had ceased, but in the cold underground air there was a
slight but unmistakable breath of exhaust. He went down the ladder for
what seemed a very long way and found himself in a passage no wider than
his outstretched arms.

Here the taint was stronger and he moved very cautiously, keeping the
pin-point of light from the small torch on the ground at his feet. An
abrupt right-angle turn brought him up with a start. The fumes were much
stronger now and, mingling with them, was the fresh sharp tang of the
sea.

He pressed on and came out suddenly into what felt like a vast open
space. The air smelt like a garage and his tiny ray of light suddenly
lengthened as the path ended in a yawning hole before his feet. He
paused, breathless, and switched off the light.

There was no sound, no sign of life, nothing except the strong reek of
petrol. He hesitated. If the place was occupied his presence must
already be discovered. He took the Superintendent’s larger torch in his
left hand and, holding it at arm’s length so that the beam should arise
a good three feet away from him on the wrong side, switched it on.

What he saw was so unexpected that he almost dropped the torch. He was
on a narrow ledge high up on the rock wall of a cave which could only be
the Trough of the Superintendent’s description, for it stretched away to
a narrow railed opening far away in the distance. This in itself was not
altogether unexpected, but what was extraordinary was that directly
below him, hidden from the entrance by a natural partition which jutted
out into the main body of the cave, was a large pocket or alcove, snug
and secret, which housed at the moment something under three hundred
three-ton lorries of varying types and ages, but clearly in good running
order and ready for the road.

Campion swung the torch over them and the finger of light rested on
bonnets and cabs, on yawning bodies and solid wheels. The narrow shaft
of light ran up one row and down the next, wavered dangerously, and
swept on again.

Campion forced himself to finish his inspection, but that single glimpse
at the end of the row had been enough. He had seen the face of a man,
crouching back into the shelter of an overhanging cab. It had been a
white face in the bright light and it had been familiar. It had flashed
into his vision bringing a name with it; a name and a deep feeling of no
enthusiasm, as someone once said so expressively.

“Weaver Bea.”

As he repeated it under his breath it sounded absurd and unlikely and
yet in all the turmoil in his mind it remained familiar and unpleasant.

It was at this point that the full realization of his own utter
inefficiency came home to him. The curious singleness of purpose which
had hitherto characterized his condition was wearing thin and he began
to take a more normal view of the situation in which he found himself,
inasmuch as he began to suspect himself at every step. He saw himself
making mountains out of molehills, and, what was even worse, pitfalls
into mere depressions. Moreover, the physical effect of the experience
had begun to tell on him again. His head ached maddeningly and he was
not too certain of his legs.

He crept back the way he had come but, although he paused to listen when
he reached the right-angle bend, there was still no sound from the great
hidden garage he had left.

As he felt his way up the narrow iron ladder he tried to assimilate what
he had seen since entering the Nag. It was both tantalizing and
alarming. He had the uncomfortable feeling that it might all be very
ordinary if seen with the clear eyes of a normally informed person. Any
municipal stronghold of great antiquity could probably appear fantastic
to the completely ignorant. Yet, on the other hand, every half-observed
aspect of the place might well possess some all-important significance
which he ought to recognize at once. There was the number 15 on the
agenda: that must be of interest. And the man he had just seen: if his
presence was normal, why had he hidden?

He struggled on and by the time he heard the Superintendent’s heavy
breathing just ahead of him he had made up his mind. There was only one
course open to him which was not criminally negligent. He must get into
touch with Oates at once. He ought to have done that immediately on
receipt of the letter, of course. He wondered why he had ignored this
obvious solution and suddenly remembered Anscombe and his own invidious
position in that matter, which had focused his entire attention on the
personal aspect. Hutch had only just explained that, of course. Good
God, he was mad! Here he was, stumbling about in the dark seeing
monsters where there were bushes and innocent shadows where there might
be death-traps, and all the time the precious hours were racing past. He
was a lunatic, very possibly a dangerous lunatic. Mercifully he was
gradually getting the intelligence to recognize the fact.

The Superintendent was eager for news but even more eager to get out of
his highly compromising position. He led the way back with alacrity and
they passed across the Council Chamber like a couple of homing foxes.

“Lorries?” he said in astonishment when Campion had replied to his
question. “How many?”

“Several.” Campion could not explain his own urge towards caution.

Hutch shook his head. “I don’t know anything about them,” he said. “It’s
the Government work, I expect. They’re doing a lot of experiments with
synthetic juice up at the Institute—at least that’s the gossip. The
Masters own the Institute, and, come to think of it, the Trough wouldn’t
be a bad place to hide a lorry or two. You’re suddenly in a great hurry,
sir. You weren’t seen, were you?”

“No,” said Campion truthfully, “but I’ve got to get a move-on now.”

The Superintendent opened his mouth to make an enquiry but the
experience of long service saved him the indiscretion. Moreover, they
were approaching the storeroom behind the shop again.

They got out without incident but Hutch was not pleased to find it
almost dawn. Fortunately it was misty and the two men plunged into the
chilling vapour as thankfully as if it had been a smoke-screen
especially provided for their benefit.

As they passed down the broad highway of the Nag’s Pykle the squat
houses blinked at them through the haze and the town of Bridge looked a
little less like a fairy-tale than it had done by moonlight. It was old
and very picturesque, but the unreality, the frankly fantastic
atmosphere of the night before, had vanished with the moon.

Campion was relieved to see it and to credit his returning intelligence
with the change. He felt definitely ill. His head was throbbing and his
body ached. However, he knew what he had to do. Amanda was his card.
Amanda must take him to Oates. It was odd that the very recollection of
Amanda should wrap such comfort round him. He must get out of that, he
supposed, if she had made up her mind, and yet . . . it was absurd. All
that was ridiculous. Amanda was not only his: she _was_ himself. Amanda
. . . oh, he couldn’t be bothered to work it out. He must go to her
. . . get to her . . . get . . . to . . . her.

Hutch caught him as he stumbled, and as they stood swaying together on
the cobbles Campion was aware of some inner reserve of strength like a
separate person within his body reaching down, down, and dragging his
submerging faculties to the surface again. It was a staggering
experience, like being rescued from drowning in a dream.

The Superintendent’s face, which had loomed very large, gradually
resumed its normal proportions and his voice, which had receded to a
distant hail, slipped back into tune.

“You’ve overdone it, sir, that’s what you’ve done. We’re just by the
station. You’ll have to sit down. You can’t go on for ever without
sleeping or eating; no one can.”

The tone was plaintive and gently nagging.

“You’ll go sick on your feet, and then where shall we be?”

He was leading his charge all the time with the firm efficiency of long
practice and they advanced upon the unexpectedly modern Police Station,
set among the Tudor scenery, in spite of his companion’s incoherent
protests.

A Police Sergeant met them on the doorstep and there was a muttered
conference between him and his chief.

“Is there?” Hutch said at last. “I see. Yes. Yes, of course. Put it
through at once. We’ll take it in the Charge Room.” He turned to Campion
anxiously. “There’s a personal call waiting for you, sir,” he said.
“It’s from Headquarters. Can you manage it? Are you all right?”

Campion had no clear impression of his passage through the station. He
came back to himself as he sat staring into the black mouth-piece of the
shabby telephone.

“Yeo here, Mr Campion,” said a voice in his ear. It was so small and
quiet that it might have been the whisper of conscience. “Yeo. Have you
got the Chief with you?”

“Oates?” Campion’s own voice was strong and apprehensive. It seemed to
him that he was shouting.

“Yes, sir. He’s gone. We can’t find him. He left his room here in the
small hours of yesterday morning and hasn’t been heard of since. Is he
with you?”

“No, he’s not here.”

There was a long pause. It seemed to stretch into centuries and shrink
again into a minute’s space. He had time to become aware of the light
streaming in through the tall windows and of the green distemper on the
wall at the end of the room.

The faraway voice spoke again.

“Then it’s you alone now, sir. You’re the only one now who can do
anything. None of the rest of us here even know the full strength. I
don’t know if you think that’s wise, sir. The Chief was in sole control
of his agents.”

Campion could not reply and after a pause the little voice came again.

“Any . . . luck, sir?”

Campion closed his eyes and opened them again as once more the secret
reserve which lies in every human body was pumped up into his veins.

“Not yet,” he said distinctly, “but there’s still an hour or two.”

Then he slipped forward across the table, his head in his arms.


                                   IX

He woke holding Amanda’s hand. He was so relieved to find it there, so
comforted to see her, alive, friendly, and gloriously intelligent, that
for a blessed moment he remained mindless and content. He lay looking at
her with placid, stupid eyes.

“You’re ill,” she said, her clear, immature voice frankly anxious. “I’ve
been trying to wake you for hours. What shall I do? Phone Oates?”

That did it. That brought him back to the situation with a rush.
Everything he knew, everything he had discovered or experienced since he
had awakened in the hospital bed, sped past his conscious mind like a
film raced through a projector at treble speed. The effect was
catastrophic. It took his breath away and left him sweating.

“No,” he said, struggling into a sitting position, while the whole top
of his head seemed to slide backwards sickeningly. “No, that’s no good.
I mean don’t do that. I’ll get up at once.”

“All right,” she agreed and he looked at her with deep affection. She
was quite obviously worried about him and in her opinion he should have
stayed where he was, but he was the boss and she was not arguing. She
was so pretty, too, so young and vividly sensible. He liked her brown
eyes and wished she would kiss him. The reflection that he had probably
lost her for ever was such an incredible disaster that he put it away
from him, unconsidered, and tightened his grip on her hand childishly.

“How late am I?”

“About an hour.” She released herself gently. “You start the tour of
inspection at ten. I’ll run you a bath and then go down and scrounge you
some breakfast. You’ve got twenty minutes before you leave the house.”

“Tour of inspection?” he said dubiously. “What—er—what do I wear?”

He had hoped for a clue but for once she was unobliging.

“Oh, just the simple uniform of an Admiral of the Fleet, I should think,
don’t you?”

Her voice floating back from the other room was followed by the roar of
his bath water.

“Or you might stick to the old fireman’s outfit, of course. That’s
bright and cheerful without being vulgar. I say,” she added as she came
in again, “what about those things? The servants here look as though
they take a valet’s interest in one’s wardrobe. It’ll look so bad if you
come in and find them neatly laid out on the bed. Shall I take them down
and stuff them in the toolbox of the car?”

“I wish you would. They’re in the cupboard,” he said. “You’re very
helpful, Amanda.”

She did not answer for a moment, but when she emerged from the armoire
with her arms full of oilskins her cheeks were bright.

“I’m still the Lieut,” she said, facing him squarely. “You get up and
see to that bath or we’ll have a flood. Time’s very short.”

Short! As the door closed behind him he realized how short time was and
cursed himself for sleeping. He could only just remember the later
events of the morning. Hutch had brought him home in a car and had put
him to bed like a mother. Mercifully they had not given him alcohol at
the Police Station. That might well have killed him with his head in its
present condition. The Sergeant in charge had apologized, he remembered,
and had substituted a stimulant fashionable in official circles at the
moment, sweet weak tea. There had been gallons of it. The glucose had
probably saved his life.

He said “probably” because getting out of bed proved to be a major
operation. However, the sleep had done him good. Miraculously he had
lost his terror of his disability. Now he was merely exasperated by it.
He did not realize that this phenomenon was nothing less than a return
of his original singleness of purpose and that it was a far more
dangerous condition. He only saw that there was work to be done, and he
was alone to do it, and that time was desperately short.

By the time he staggered downstairs he was fairly clear about his
immediate plan of campaign. The Masters were his best bet. They knew the
secret of 15 if anyone did, since they were making it their main
business of the evening. Lee Aubrey must be persuaded to tell him all
there was to be known about the Masters. For the rest, since they had
obviously arranged a programme for himself when he had been in full
possession of his senses, that programme must be part of his original
plan and the only thing to do was to go through with it.

He found Aubrey waiting for him in a brown and yellow morning-room. He
was standing by the window looking with tragedian’s eyes at Amanda, who
sat behind the silver. His greeting was gravely commiserating, as though
he knew that lesser men had weaknesses and he could be tolerant and even
a little envious of them.

Campion, watching him with his new child’s eyes, saw what Amanda liked
in him and sized it up like a General inspecting enemy fortifications
before the commencement of hostilities.

He made a hurried breakfast and, only half-way through the meal,
realized that it was Lee who was waiting for him.

“It’s too bad we can’t take you with us.” Aubrey spoke to the girl with
a frankness of regret which was almost indecent. “But I’m afraid it’s
impossible. We’re not exactly wedded to the Government, but we’re rather
definitely under its protection, in the eighteenth-century sense, and my
instructions only apply to Campion. It’s all quite, quite mad, of
course. I sometimes wonder if the fellows who set out these restrictions
aren’t using a little too broad a rule. There’s not enough brains to go
round, you know. That’s the fundamental weakness in the Government and
everywhere else.”

“Oh, that’s all right,” said Amanda cheerfully. “I don’t want to see
your old Institute. The whole show sounds like a municipal school of
conjuring to me.”

Lee hesitated and it was only after a moment that his charming smile
spread over his large curling features.

“You shocked me,” he said with disarming naïveté. “I get very parochial
down here. One does. To hear the Masters called ‘municipal’ gives me a
sacrilegious thrill.”

“They achieve almost international status, financially at any rate,
don’t they?” Campion’s thought was running on spice island and he spoke
unguardedly.

Lee raised his head and gave him one of his surprisingly intelligent
stares.

“They’re very wealthy, of course,” he said primly.

“Yes, well, there you are. A penny here and a penny there, it all mounts
up over a period of years.” Campion had intended to sound ignorant, but
even he was unprepared for the degree of fatuous idiocy he managed to
present.

Lee looked genuinely embarrassed and glanced at Amanda apologetically.

“When you’re ready we’ll go,” he said, and later, as he and Campion
walked across the turf together, he took it upon himself to explain
gently, choosing his words carefully as though talking to a child.
“Historically the Masters are amazingly interesting,” he began, reproval
in his pleasant voice. “The family which was the leading spirit at their
foundation never completely rotted away. The Letts have never produced
any great men, but nor have they had any downright wrong ’uns, and
there’s always been one moderately intelligent business man in every
generation. The present fellow, Peter Lett, is just a good sound average
brain like his uncle before him, and his grandfather and
great-grandfathers before that. They’ve all been religious, respectable,
and very parochial, while of course the curious hereditary and
semi-secret structure of the society has been a tremendous safeguard.
Financially the Masters have had their bad periods but they’ve never
gone quite under. Their basic line is so good.”

“What’s that?”

Aubrey seemed astounded. “Patents, of course,” he said.

“Patents?”

“Well,” he was laughing a little, “it was monopolies to begin with,
naturally. Queen Elizabeth gave them their first big break. One of the
kids in the little charity school they started up turned out to be the
great Ralph Godlee, who invented the Godlee loom. The Masters got a
monopoly on the manufacture of the things from the Queen and it
revolutionized the wool-weaving industry over here, speeding up the
production by about five hundred per cent and making the town’s fortune.
The word ‘abridged’ comes from it. It shortened the process. But you
know all this as well as I do.”

Campion coughed. “At the moment there are gaps in my education,” he
admitted modestly. “Do go on. I find this fascinating. They’ve continued
like this, have they?—first educating and then fleecing the investor?”

Lee made a deprecatory grimace and quite openly thought for a moment or
so. He was extraordinarily self-conscious in that one way. His thinking
was obvious, almost pantomimic.

“That’s not quite true,” he said at last. “One must be fair. Let’s say
that instead of patronizing the arts they’ve always gone in for science
and have been lucky in having been able to produce a few valuable
inventors who have always made their own fortunes as well as adding to
the general fund. The Masters had their great successes in the Victorian
industrial age, naturally. It’s only comparatively recently that they’ve
become so very wealthy. They bought very sensibly at that time, always
going for overseas property, tea plantations, and so on. At the moment I
think the Institute gives more than value for money every time. Look at
the facilities the chosen inventor gets here. Once his idea is approved,
every mortal thing he needs is given to him gratis. His patents are
acquired for him and he hands out a percentage. Just now things are more
than booming, naturally. The Carter cheap process for extracting petrol
from coal is going to be an enormous thing, and we’ve one or two
pleasant little explosives on the carpet. The whisky bottle you can’t
refill is another one of ours too; that’s a great money-maker.”

Campion listened to him fascinated. He knew it, he had heard it all
before, he was sure of that, and vaguely it was all coming back to him.
It reminded him most of a rubbing of an old brass. Shadowy outlines of
facts were coming up on the blank surfaces of his mind. If only he felt
a little more sure of his legs, a little less as though he were
ploughing through clouds of cotton-wool which gave beneath him!

“I don’t approve of the Masters in principle,” Lee was saying
pedantically. “I don’t like pockets of wealth like that in the country.
But, to do these fellows justice, their little constitution does good
work. The Ceremony of the Bale of Straw is a nice archaic idea, for
instance. All the mummery of the fraternity is connected with the Nag,
you know, and they have a ruling that at every half-yearly meeting the
Masters shall ‘put down a bale of straw in the Nag’s stable’; that is to
say they shall do something to improve the amenities of the town of
Bridge. That’s why the place is so luxuriously drained, watered, and
lit. There’s not a scrap of slum property in the area. Fortunes are
being spent on the place and the rates are negligible. Here we are. See
the sentry? That’s what working for the War House does for you.”

They had come up over the ridge of high ground which stretched up behind
the poplar trees and had reached the private road leading to the
Institute, a cluster of roofs surrounded by a high moss-grown wall. The
original building was now no more than a museum, but all around it
clustered over houses, workshops, and laboratories, representing every
phase of British architecture. There was the usual preponderance of
Victorian-Gothic and a generous sprinkling of modern pillbox.

A soldier with fixed bayonet stood on guard before the ornamental iron
gates. Lee Aubrey smiled at the man as they passed.

“Gloriously mad, isn’t it?” he murmured. “There’s something rather sweet
and childlike about the modern world, don’t you think? ‘Halt. Give the
countersign. Pass friend. Eena-deena-dina-do, you’re a spy.’ It’s so
monstrously young.”

“Childish perhaps, but hardly sweet,” said Campion absently. “Where do
we go first?”

“My dear fellow, that’s entirely up to you. My instructions are that I’m
to show you anything that you care to see. Take your choice. On your
left you have the bad-tempered but otherwise wholly delightful Carter
working with his team of galley-slaves. They’ll be polite because I’m by
way of being the Headmaster, but they won’t be hospitable.”

Aubrey was enjoying himself. He was exaggeratedly proud of the place and
its magnificent organization.

“On your extreme right, in that depressing building which looks like a
Methodist chapel, is poor old Burgess. He’ll talk all night. He’s having
trouble with his reaper. The late trials were nothing less than a fiasco
and he may have struck a serious snag. Before you is the library, the
office, the filing department, and the drafting rooms. And right over
there, as comfortably distant as space will permit, is the star turn of
the moment, the War House’s little white-headed boy, our young Master
Butcher, mucking about with Anderton’s latest variety of potted hell
fire. I have to keep an eye on him and see he controls his quantities.
It’s incredible stuff. Half a teaspoonful can make as much mess as a
bucketful of T.N.T. Hence the sentry on the door.”

He paused expectantly and Campion stood irresolute. This was a
continuation of the frustration dream of the night before. As far as he
could see, the whole thing was being handed to him on a plate and yet he
could not put his finger on it.

“It’s almost an embarrassment of riches,” he said aloud, and added
hastily: “What’s in the dovecote?”

The building so unkindly described had caught his attention because of a
certain amount of life going on before it. A lorry loading sacks was
drawn up in front of the door.

Lee frowned and the man at his side was aware of the wave of irritation
which passed over him. It was a physical thing, as if his personal
magnetism had been switched off and on again.

“You’ve got a nose, haven’t you?” he said, half laughing. “You’re one of
those people who always move the chair which covers the hole in the
carpet and go straight to the cupboard where the dirty washing-up has
been hidden. I offer you the exciting drawing-room exhibits and you go
direct to the one dull ugly scullery in the place. That’s our cross, the
blot on our dignity. We’ve been compelled to shelter fifty beastly
little amateur workers simply because we happen to have a lot of room.
Think of it! In that sacred building Richardson perfected his adding
machine, and now half a hundred little girls who can hardly write are
addressing envelopes there for the Ministry of Health. As if there
weren’t five million other places in England which would do quite as
well. I tell you, I have them shepherded in and out by a police matron
and a stalwart from the Corps of Commissioners. Like to come and look at
them?”

“Not very much,” said Campion. They had reached the building by this
time and through the long windows he could see rows of bent heads and
piles of Government envelopes. It looked dull work, but in his present
mood highly preferable to his own, and he envied them.

As they skirted the lorry a woman with untidy white hair came out of the
arched doorway. She was faintly familiar and he recognized her at last
as one of Aubrey’s dinner guests of the night before. She was startled
to see them and came up with that half-hesitant, half-eager humility
which is more common in far younger women.

“We’re getting on very nicely, Mr Aubrey,” she said appealingly and
blushed.

Campion was surprised. Missing on four out of five cylinders though he
was, he could still recognize those symptoms when he saw them, and she
was not that kind of woman. A great many ladies who are old enough to
know better frequently become hopelessly infatuated with brilliant
middle-aged bachelors, but they are seldom of the experienced,
intelligent type of gentlewoman which he saw before him. He recollected
that she had been very interested in Amanda the last time he had seen
her. He glanced at Aubrey, to find him frigid.

“Splendid, Mrs Ericson,” he said briefly and passed on, leaving a
flavour of distaste in the air. “Patriotic voluntary work,” he murmured
under his breath to Campion as they turned the corner. “Intense stuff.”

“She looked intelligent,” said Campion and Lee considered the matter.

“Oh, she is,” he agreed brightly. “She’s a widow of the late holder of
one of the Masters’ minor offices and quite a power in the town. Very
well read, you know, nice, educated, but emotionally unstable, I fancy.
Now this is Butcher’s domain, which I take it is your main interest. I
say, I admire your magnificent reticence, Campion. It’s impressive.”

The final observation was made impulsively and as if he meant it.

Campion said nothing and hoped that his silence might pass for modest
appreciation. There was a dull throbbing in the back of his head and he
had begun to wonder if his vision was not a little deceptive. All the
colours in the bright sunlight tended to blur together dangerously. He
took hold of himself again. This was hopeless! There was something to be
done and, as far as he could gather, only himself to do it. It was a
fine thing if he was going to fall down on it through a god-damn silly
bang on the head!

It was a longish walk to the square concrete tower at the far end of the
Institute grounds and when they reached it their inspection was not
illuminating. Butcher himself turned out to be a cheerful youngster with
the face of a ploughboy and thick pebbled glasses. He had a youthful
respect for Aubrey, whom he clearly admired, and was pleased to show his
laboratories and workshops.

“These are the best of the bunch,” he said, diving into a rough cupboard
in a corner of the main room on the ground floor, which had been
deserted and open to the path as they came up. “I keep them in their
racks because they really are pretty sensational. We call ’em Phoenix
Eggs. Don’t drop it, old man, will you? It’s quite safe unless you dig
that pin out, of course, but it’s as well not to bounce it about because
it’s only a specimen and you never know.”

Campion looked down at the metal egg so suddenly thrust in his hand. It
was a little larger than a hen’s and unexpectedly light. Butcher was
fondling another, fitting it lovingly into the hollow under his thumb.

“It’s important to be able to chuck it a decent distance,” he explained.
“It’s pretty powerful. The blast is colossal and they even make quite a
crater. It’s wonderful really. You can make almost any building look
silly with only one of these. It’s the Anderton variety of liquid air,
but we’ve improved on it—or at least we’ve utilized every aspect of it.
I could hit that old museum over there with this and after the balloon
had gone up, oh boy, you wouldn’t know it! This is refined warfare,
that’s what this is.”

He retrieved Campion’s specimen, juggled with the two of them absently,
and replaced them in their nests.

“They’re putting up the machines for these now,” he said. “I’ve got some
nice little aero models coming along in the basement, but we’re still
working on the detonators. Anything else in particular that you’d like
to see?”

“No, I won’t keep you from your work. You’ve given me more than fifteen
minutes already.”

The young man’s expression did not change and Campion shook hands and
turned away. A sixth sense, or rather that mysterious body-mind which so
often seems to take charge when one’s normal brain goes back on one, was
looking after him. His reserve and noncommittal tone were far more
impressive than any show of appreciation could ever have been and young
Butcher retired to his underground laboratory wondering if the
Authorities really put quite the trust in him which their behaviour so
far had caused him to suspect.

It was Campion who led Aubrey out into the sun again. He had listened to
a quantity of technical detail from Butcher, all of which might be
important to an enemy but was not so to him. Whatever Butcher knew was
also known already, presumably, by the War Office and was therefore none
of Campion’s business. What he must be looking for was something which
was hitherto unknown to them. Fifteen? He must keep his mind clear and
hang on to that. Fifteen: that was still his only definite clue.
Fifteen, and the people who knew what it meant. Butcher was evidently
not one of them, but there was someone else who was.

As he raised his eyes and looked down the narrow concrete path which ran
like a chalk-line across the green turf, he saw the man he was thinking
about. He appeared so quickly that it was difficult to say whether
thought or vision came first. His jaunty roundness was recognizable at a
tremendous distance and he came bouncing along towards them without
haste.


                                   X

“That fellow Pyne,” said Campion.

“Really?” Aubrey’s distinctive face clouded. “What on earth is the man
doing wandering round here alone like this? They’ve let him in to look
for me, I suppose. They mustn’t do that, as they very well know. He’s
talked his way in, you see. How extraordinary these fellows are! I’m
quite prepared to like him, but he mustn’t make himself a nuisance. I
loathe having to tell a man to clear out.”

“Who is he?”

“Pyne? Oh, rather an interesting bird. Remarkably intelligent in his own
way. Probably dishonest. Works like a fiend.” Lee had dropped into his
objective mood again. His remarks were quite free from affectation and
he spoke with the judicial simplicity of an admittedly superior being.
“He’s evacuated his office down here. It’s an amusing little
organization and he makes a very good thing out of it. He calls it
Surveys Limited. I suppose you’ve heard of it?”

“It’s faintly familiar,” said Campion not untruthfully. “What do they
do? Arrange one’s life for one?”

Lee laughed. “Only in part,” he murmured. “They’re an advice and
information bureau. If you want to build a factory or start up a
business in an unknown locality they’ll get out all the dope on the
place for you. They’re remarkably thorough. Apart from the usual stuff,
they tabulate the most intimate details, including some very shrewd work
on public opinion and estimates of local wealth. In fact they’ll sound
every possible depth for you in strictest confidence. Pyne told me once
that he had ten thousand agents all over England. That probably means
that he’s employed about half that number at some time or other during
his career. I imagine any man to whom he’s ever given five bob for
personal views on local conditions is included in the aggregate, but
still, to do him justice, he does seem to get the commissions. Mildly
entertaining?”

Campion nodded briefly. He was not in the condition to be mildly
entertained and Pyne was almost upon them.

By morning light he did not look quite so amiable and easy-going. At
first Campion was inclined to blame his own unreliable observation on
the night before for the change, but as soon as the newcomer began to
speak he was not so sure. Pyne was still hearty, but now there was
suppressed anxiety and a touch of antagonism there as well. He greeted
them without preliminaries.

“Any developments?” he demanded as soon as he was within speaking
distance.

“In which direction?” Campion was relieved to find that his own powers
of controlling both his face and voice were considerable.

“Well, what about last night? What about Anscombe?” Pyne was keyed up
and his round eyes were as shifty and inquisitive as a sparrow’s.

A thin trickle of fear dribbled down Campion’s spine. Until that moment
he had entirely forgotten the incident. The enormity of the omission
appalled him. Anscombe and his disturbing manner of dying had gone clean
out of his mind. Good God! If he had forgotten that, what else had he
overlooked? To his relief Lee looked faintly shamefaced also.

“Oh Lord! Miss Anscombe!” he said. “I _must_ go down to see her. It’s
early yet, but what a merciful chance you reminded me. Once one gets
behind this wall one passes into another world, you know. Don’t you feel
it, Campion? The mind simply settles down to consider ideas and their
technical development. Poor old Anscombe. I knew him reasonably well,
but in here and at the moment he’s absolutely remote.”

Pyne wiped his forehead. “You’re lucky,” he said drily. “I’ve been
thinking of him all night. I don’t like the look of that death. If the
police are satisfied, of course, it’s nothing to do with me, but I
rather wondered if they were?”

There was a question in his last remark and Campion, who recollected
just in time that no one present knew of his late night meeting with
Hutch, ignored it. Lee Aubrey was less cautious.

“Anscombe was of the type who never commit suicide,” he said
didactically.

Pyne glanced at Campion.

“Murder was the thought in my mind,” he said.

Lee coughed and moved on up the path. He was offended. His mouth was
pursed and he looked shocked.

“My dear chap,” he protested, giving the reproach just sufficient
reproach to make it also a rebuke, “hysteria at this time in the morning
is inexcusable. And there’s one other thing while I think of it, Pyne.
You really must not come in here unless I bring you personally. It’s
simply not allowed. The British Government has put its foot down on the
subject. I don’t want to know how you got yourself admitted, because I
don’t want to have to report the poor beast on the gate, but for
heaven’s sake don’t do it again.”

It was as near a schoolmaster’s scolding as Campion had ever heard
administered to a grown man. Pyne gave no sign that he had heard. He
remained round, pink, and dangerously suspicious.

“There’s been a man-hunt all over this district for the last twelve
hours at least,” he remarked presently as they walked on. “A fellow
wanted by the police escaped from St Jude’s Hospital in Coachingford
last night. He pinched an old car, abandoned it at the watersplash on
the lower Bridge road, and disappeared. They’re still searching for him.
Doesn’t that strike you as suspicious?”

Lee burst out laughing, an almost feminine spitefulness in his
amusement.

“Oh, come,” he said, “that’s abominable thinking. Some wretched man is
escaping from the police and therefore it’s only natural to suppose that
the first thing he does is to sneak into a garden and murder old
Anscombe, who happened to be there. It’s childish, Pyne. It won’t wash.
You’re upset, my dear chap. That obtrusive stomach of yours is out of
order.”

The little fat man jerked in his belly, but his eyes did not lose their
alarming shrewdness.

“I was thinking, Campion,” he began, “you must have come over from
Coachingford about the right time. You didn’t see anything of this man,
did you?”

“No,” said Campion. His tone was mild, he noticed.

Lee sighed with exasperation. “My good Pyne,” he said, taking the other
man’s arm with a weary familiarity which had in it the very essence of
condescension, “you’re making an unholy ass of yourself, you know.”

“I don’t believe I am, Aubrey.”

“Then you must take my word for it.” Lee was smiling dangerously.
“Campion is personally known to me and I give you my word that (_a_) he
gave no lift to any escaping suspect, and (_b_) that suspect did not
reward him by bumping off poor old Anscombe in his own front yard.
Moreover, that suggestion is ridiculous, it’s absurd, it’s mad, it’s
nuts. Forget it, and let the police do their own chores.”

Pyne allowed himself to be led out of the Institute gates and across the
turf towards the house. If Aubrey was offending him he did not show it.

“I don’t know Mr Campion well. If you do, I’ve nothing more to say,” he
remarked at last in a perfectly unruffled tone. “But have you read the
description of the man the police are looking for?”

“No, I haven’t. I don’t think I want to particularly.”

“I found it interesting.” Pyne’s placid obstinacy was insuppressible.
“The man they want is thirty-five years old and six-foot-two high. He
has a pale face and sleek blond hair, and his chief characteristics are
that he is very thin and yet powerful.” He paused and when no one spoke
added ingenuously: “When last seen he was wearing fireman’s oilskins.”

Lee crowed with delight. “And a brass helmet as well?” he demanded.
“This is lovely. Pyne, my poor friend, you’re giving me an enormous
amount of innocent pleasure. Do go on; I wouldn’t stop you for the
world.”

The plump man turned to Campion.

“What do you think?” he enquired.

Campion appeared to give the matter serious consideration. They had
reached the ridge of high ground and were now sauntering down towards
the poplar trees. He had his hands in his pockets and they were clenched
so that the nails dug into his palms. His heart was thudding in his side
and before the dark curtain hung across his mind his conscious thoughts
were as chaotic and useless as those behind it were lost. He was
dithering, and that fact frightened him far more than this dangerous
little man’s questions.

“What name would you put to that description?” Pyne persisted.

He was waiting for an answer. He was waiting for an answer. He was
waiting for an answer. A minute had gone by, a whole minute. A minute;
perhaps another minute. Campion could not think. Good God, he could not
_think_. This was horrible, terrifying. He could not think. The
machinery for thinking had broken down. He was helpless, lost, at the
mercy of this dreadful little creature with the cruel, predatory eyes of
a bird.

What name? What name? What _name_?

“Almost any, I should say,” he murmured, unaware that he sounded more
bored than anything else. “John Smith, Albert Campion, Weaver Bea.”

There was complete silence. It lasted so long that he was able to drag
himself out of his floundering panic and glance round before anyone
spoke.

Lee Aubrey was mooching along with his shoulders hunched under his
sleek, almost foppishly cut jacket. He was clearly embarrassed by the
personal turn which the conversation had taken. The ridiculous name
which had slipped out so dangerously had not registered upon him.

But with Pyne it was very different. For the first time his shining
composure was destroyed. He had changed colour and his eyes were no
longer merely suspicious. He turned his head and looked the other man
full in the face.

“I’ve obviously made an idiotic mistake, Mr Campion,” he said. “That
scene last night unnerved me a bit, I expect. You and I ought to have a
talk some time. Why don’t you come down to my office? I think you’d be
interested in it. We might have a spot of lunch together in the town.”

“That’s an idea,” Lee cut in before Campion could reply. He spoke with
the hearty relief of the host who thinks he sees a way of amusing the
temporarily unwanted guest. “That business of his will entertain you,
Campion. I found it fascinating. Pyne’s a most amusing beggar when he’s
not being melodramatic or playing detectives.”

Campion was silent. He had no illusions whatever about Pyne. The man was
on the right track and knew it. It was a tight corner. Delay at this
point was the one thing he knew would be fatal, and delay there
certainly would be once the County Police discovered in him the
particular man for whom they were scouring the country. Headquarters
might back him up to the hilt, but there would have to be explanations
first and explanations would lead to the discovery of his condition,
whatever else they disclosed. Whatever else? That question was too
alarming even to consider and he shrank from it.

With what was obviously a habit with him in difficult moments he looked
around for Amanda. To his relief he actually saw her, turning the corner
of the house. He was not surprised. That was the miraculous part of
Amanda; she always seemed to materialize at the right moment. It was as
though they were partners in some long practiced game, with years of
experience and cooperation behind them. She hailed him and with a
muttered word of excuse he hurried over to meet her. She spoke quietly
as he came up.

“I say, the Superintendent’s here. He wants to see you alone, apart from
Lee, I mean. He won’t come in, and he’s waiting round by the side door.
Would you go to him?”

Would he! The idea of the lanky Hutch as a rescuing angel, robe,
feathers, and all, did not seem in the least incongruous at that moment.

“Oh, bless you,” he said so fervently that her brown eyes widened.

“Sticky?” she enquired under her breath.

“Not so hot, anyway,” he admitted. “Stay with them, will you, my
darling? Don’t let Pyne open his heart to Aubrey.”

He saw the faint flicker of astonishment in her expression and was
puzzled by it until he realized that it was the heartfelt, grateful
endearment which had surprised her. That was a revelation which brought
him up with a jerk and his sudden sense of desolation was not lightened
by the conviction that he deserved it.

He saw Hutch as soon as he turned into the yard. The plain-clothes man
was sitting on the running-board of a huge old Buick and the sun shone
down on the unexpectedly resplendent colours of his tweed suit. He rose
as soon as Campion appeared and sauntered forward.

“Hallo!” Campion’s greeting was unusually hearty. Here at least was an
ally, however blindfold.

“Good morning.” A guarded quality in the policeman’s tone struck a
warning note which set every nerve in his body on edge. “Can I have a
few words with you, sir?”

“Of course. Why not? Carry on.” Campion felt he was talking too much and
could not stop himself. “What’s the excitement?”

“No excitement, sir.” Hutch eyed him curiously. “I’d just like you to
take a look at this, if you will. We don’t take any notice of these
things as a rule, naturally, but in this case there are certain
circumstances which made me think I’d bring it round to you.”

Campion glanced at the sheet of paper which was thrust into his hands.
It bore a short type-written message.

    “Dear Superintendent.—

    “When the Home Office issued you with instructions concerning
    Albert Campion, did they by any chance also send you a
    photograph? That’s all. Think it over.”

There was no signature and it was undated. Campion read it through
twice. It was Pyne, of course; probably written the night before after
his own idiotic slip when he had fallen into the little trap concerning
their previous association in the U.S.

The inference was obvious. Pyne saw there was something fishy about him
and suspected him of impersonation, impersonation of Albert Campion.
That was pretty good, pretty funny. He could soon put a stop to that,
anyway.

Could he, though? The new danger opened out like a morass in front of
him.

He gave back the sheet of paper with a steady hand, but his head was
hurting intolerably and he could feel the sweat on his forehead.

“Well?” he enquired.

Hutch produced another paper. This proved to be a police chit which
detailed in the usual unenlightened phrases the chief physical
characteristics of the man who had escaped in fireman’s oilskins from St
Jude’s Hospital, Coachingford.

Campion read them aloud.

“Well,” he said again. The throbbing in the crown of his skull had
turned to shooting pains of excruciating violence and the outlines of
the Superintendent’s jaunty figure were shimmering as though in a heat
haze.

Hutch looked up. His eyes were searching and he took a long time to make
up his mind to speak.

“I haven’t got a warrant, of course,” he said at last, “so I’d like to
ask a favour of you. May I go over your room, sir, just to satisfy my
own curiosity? I—well, to put it frankly, sir, when I was getting you
to bed last night I noticed the whole room reeked of oilskins. I can’t
get that out of my head.”

Campion laughed aloud. It was not a very convincing sound, but at least
it was spontaneous.

“Search with pleasure,” he said. “Search the whole house. I’ll square
you with Aubrey. How long have you been in the police, Hutch?”

“Twenty-eight years and two months, sir.”

“Have you?” The implied criticism, as from a superior officer, had its
effect. Campion felt rather than saw the man waver. He laughed again and
with better humour. “You trot along and set your mind at rest,” he said.
“If you find the uniform bring it to me. I’d like to see myself in
fireman’s rig. If it shouldn’t be in the bedroom, well, try the rest of
the house and then the grounds.”

Hutch shrugged. He was verging on the sheepish. He took a step towards
the side door, changed his mind, and came back.

“Just answer me two questions, sir. Then I’ll apologize.”

This was more dangerous. Campion kept his tone light.

“Anything you like, Superintendent.”

“What is the name of the C.D.I. in Room 49 at Headquarters?”

“Yeo.” It was a shot in the dark but he had not hesitated. The name had
been dragged up out of his mind as he forced himself to hear again the
small voice on the telephone the night before.

Hutch stood looking at him oddly. There was no way of telling whether he
had succeeded or failed.

“And the second?” Campion took the bold line. To pause, he felt, might
be fatal, and whatever happened he could not be held up now.

Hutch moistened his lips and lowered his voice.

“What’s your own S.S. number, sir?”

Campion smiled. He had no idea, no idea in the world.

“At the moment I rather fancy it’s fifteen,” he said and laughed.

He saw he had blundered badly. He saw the consternation slowly dawning
on Hutch’s pleasant face as the enormity of the situation dawned on him,
since it included his own inexcusable deception and the incredible
indiscretion he had committed in taking an unauthorized person on the
visit of the evening before. Campion saw the next move, imminent and
inescapable. He saw himself detained, held up helpless while the vital
hours raced by. His tormented mind shuttered. It was as though the dark
curtain became for a moment an open venetian-blind. It rattled,
flickered, and was shut again.

He hit out.

His fist possessed a cunning he did not anticipate. It was a beautiful,
expert’s blow which rippled from his left shoulder with the entire
weight of his body behind it.

Hutch, who was still reeling under the nervous shock, was taken
completely unawares. He went down like a tree, the silly expression of
astonishment still on his face.

Campion did not look at him. He was not aware of him. From that instant
he moved automatically. He stepped into the Buick, trod on the
accelerator which was also the starter, and leant back.

The car bounced into the air and he took the drive at sixty. At the
gates he turned to the left as if he knew exactly what he was doing and
drove with uncanny precision and great speed through the town, under the
lowering Nag, over the small millbridge and on through twisting country
roads, all without hesitation or any conscious thought. His mind was a
peaceful blank. Never afterwards had he any recollection of the journey.
He travelled as migrating birds seem to travel, with blind knowledge.
The brain behind the curtain was in charge and the conscious man might
well have been in an hypnotic trance. From first to last he was
peculiarly dexterous.

He entered the big industrial town of Coachingford by the Roman road and
negotiated the by-pass circus without difficulty. One or two policemen
saluted the car, with its small priority notice in the corner of the
windscreen. He drove without hesitation through a knot of tiny streets,
paused correctly for the lights, and took the complicated turnings with
precision.

At an open garage in a dizzy square he slowed, drove the car into a
shelter, and climbed out. He did not feel his feet on the pavement and
did not wait for his check. Moving with the unhesitating singleness of
purpose which renders a man so natural that he is next best to
invisible, he crossed the road, turned down an alley, came out of it
into a busy but impoverished street, and pressed on until he paused
before a small and dirty shop which possessed a row of empty display
boards outside and a dreary collection of cigarettes and dusty sweets in
the window. He glanced up and down the road and then went inside.

The cool darkness of the shop, with its characteristic smell of
printer’s ink and tobacco, brought him suddenly out of his state of
somnambulism. He stopped dead and stood staring about him with startled
eyes. He had no idea where he was, nor how or why he had come. A grey
face peered at him from behind the back of the counter and the two men
remained looking at one another in mutual doubt.

The shopkeeper, who was old and thin and ineffectual, seemed quite as
bewildered to see his visitor as Campion was to see him.

After the first shock of returning intelligence Campion grew afraid. He
was a man not used to fear in any form and its deep cold fingers gripped
his stomach paralysingly.

The shopkeeper cleared his throat nervously and came edging round the
counter.

“You’ll want the boss,” he said. “Come inside.”

Campion moved forward unsteadily and the other man raised a greasy flap
in the counter. The back of the shop was very small and dark and the two
panels of frosted glass in the door which the old man indicated looked
like some bright avenue of escape. Campion all but charged them, hurling
himself into the room within, while the shopkeeper drew the door shut
silently behind him. It was in many ways a dreadful little room, papered
with sections of grey fruit and still furnished with all the misguided
decorations of the eighties. Practically the entire floor space was
taken up by a large table, covered first with a red cloth and then with
several sheets of newspaper.

Sitting at this table, collarless and in shirt-sleeves, was a very
remarkable person. He had a white melancholy face hung beneath a
glistening bald skull, and his eyes, which were narrow and
expressionless, were dull as coal-dust. At the moment he was engaged in
cleaning and oiling a heavy service revolver which looked as if it had
been well loved for many years. He raised his eyes as the door burst
open, but did not move his head or speak. Campion said nothing. He leant
back against the panels of the door. His ears were drumming and the
beating of his heart seemed to keep time to the intolerable throbbing in
his head.

The man at the table breathed heavily through his short nose.

“So you’ve come back, ’ave yer?” he said.


                                   XI

Campion did not speak. The walls of the tiny room were converging on
him. The air was too warm and too heavy to force open his lungs. The
face of the man at the table swelled terrifying, widening and widening
like the white of an egg in a pan. Soon it must fill the whole universe
and suffocate him beneath its flabby weight.

Campion’s lips moved in a final despairing cry of protest, but no sound
came.

Across the red tablecloth the fat man gazed at him with new interest.
Suddenly he laid aside the gun and slipped quietly to his feet with that
surprisingly smooth agility only found in old fighting men.

He came round the room and peered into the newcomer’s face.

“Eh,” he said at last and the word was a grunt uttered deep in his
throat. “Come here.”

He lowered the young man on to a chair and propped his elbows on the
table for him, while his own thick hands explored the scalp.

“You’ve ’ad a cosh, ’aven’t ye? ’Ow bad are yer?”

His concern was genuine and intensely practical. He was also very gentle
without being in the least soft. It was like being delivered into the
hands of some gargantuan Roman matron, or perhaps a friendly female
bear.

“Answer up,” he commended, prodding the nape of Campion’s neck with a
padded forefinger.

The injured man drew away from him wearily.

“Who the hell are you?” he murmured with just sufficient interest to
drive home the genuineness of the enquiry.

“God Almighty!” The exclamation was no expletive but a direct and pious
appeal to the Deity. The fat man plumped himself down on a chair and
seized Campion’s shoulders. His little black eyes were circular and a
fine sprinkling of sweat appeared on his heavy face.

“Are you kiddin’? This isn’t the ruddy time to play the goat, you know.”

Campion let his head roll forward. The pain of movement was almost
welcome, since it cut through the dreadful breathless sense of weight
which was stifling him.

“Do you know ’oo you are yerself?” There was a tremor in the thick voice
so near his ear.

“Campion . . . It’s written in my suit.”

“_Lumme!_” There was a brief pause while the older man assimilated the
salient facts. Then he took command. “Come on,” he said. “Get yer collar
orf and lie down. Don’t try to use yer ’ead. It’s no good to yer for a
bit. You’re all right. You’re at ’ome. Don’t start thinking. You’re with
yer own. Got that? With yer own. I’m goin’ to put you on the sofa and
cover you up while I get a crocus.”

“No.” Campion recognized the word without realizing that it was more
than nine-tenths of his compatriots would have done. “Can’t have a
doctor. Can’t have any officials. They’re all after me by now.”

“’Oo?”

“The police.”

“Rozzers? You’ve made a mistake. You’re punch-drunk. What ’ave you
done?”

“Slugged a copper. Two coppers. The last one was the local Super, a dear
good chap, I can’t have killed him.”

“Killed ’im? ’Oo’s talking of killing?” Generations of inbred fear of
the one crime which is never forgiven to any man, however privileged,
lay in the truculent demand.

“I am.” It was a relief to Campion to talk freely at last. “Apparently I
did kill the first one. Can’t remember it. Woke up in hospital.”

“Horspital?” The fat man’s heavy eyelids lowered a fraction. “There was
a man scarpered from the horspital in a fireman’s outfit,” he suggested.

“Yes. That was me. Now I’ve slugged a Superintendent of Police. I can’t
remember anything after that until I walked in here. Who are you?”

The other did not reply directly. He got up heavily and as if he had
grown older.

“You come and lie down,” he said. “I want to ’ave a look at you. I’ll
get you as right as I can and then we’ll talk. We’d better,” he added
grimly.

Campion allowed himself to be led over to the dreadful imitation leather
couch which took up practically all one side of the room, but the moment
his head touched the clammy seat he struggled into a sitting position
again.

“No time,” he said, unaware that the words were slurred. “Tomorrow’s the
fifteenth. Must get on. No time for this.”

“You’ll ’ave all the time you want and more if you don’t shut up. Lie
still while I do a bit of doctoring.”

The bald man moved towards the door as he spoke.

“I’ll just drop a word to old Happy Fanny outside to keep ’is eyes
skinned in case they take sights of us. You don’t know if you was
followed ’ere, do you? No, that’s right, you don’t ’ave to tell me. You
don’t know anything. You lie still. I’ll see to yer.”

It was warm and dark in the little room in spite of the time of day and
the mean rickety french windows gave on to a weedy yard with a blank
wall behind. Campion closed his eyes and was lost.

He came to himself to find artificial light burning painfully into his
eyes. The fat man was on a chair, fitting a new bulb into a chandelier
which hung over the table. It was a complicated arrangement of weights
and pulleys decorated with distressing pink frosted glass shades.

He clambered down cautiously and, groping under the table, produced a
cone-shaped contraption of black paper which he fixed round and over the
lighting arrangements, so that a brilliant pool lay in the centre of the
table alone while the rest of the room was in comparative darkness.
Having complied with these blackout restrictions, he returned to his
patient.

“That’s right,” he said with relief as he raised one of the pallid
eyelids with a great thumb. “You’re not so dead as you was. I got you
warm, see? Now I’m not giving you spirits because they might finish you,
but I’ve got some muck ’ere you’d better drink. I’ve cooked it meself so
I know what’s in it.”

He went round the table and bent over a small grate where he had got a
fire going. It was all very homely and grubbily comfortable.

Campion was puzzled by it, but not alarmed. The fat man, whoever he was,
was a friend. He returned presently with a steaming jug which looked
ominous but which turned out to contain nothing more extraordinary than
strong old-fashioned beef tea, made according to Mrs Beeton. Campion was
surprised to find that instead of being repelled by it he could drink it
with enjoyment, and its effect upon him was extraordinary. As its warmth
spread over him he felt strength generating in him as clearly as if new
blood was being pumped into his veins. It occurred to him that he had
not eaten properly for a very long time. His head felt clearer too; that
was a mercy. Everything which had happened recently stood out in his
mind with stereoscopic vividness. The curtain was still there, though,
heavy and dark as ever, with the great nagging worry lurking just behind
it.

The other man took away the jug and hitched himself on the edge of the
table.

“Now,” he said, “you and me ’as got to ’ave a talk. You think you’ve
slugged a big cop, don’t you? A Super? How sure are you?”

“I’m certain of it. He was just getting on to me and I saw delay ahead
and no way out of it, so I let him have it and bunked. I can’t remember
anything after that. But there’s no time for talk now. How long have I
been asleep?”

“What was the cop’s name?”

“Hutch. Superintendent Hutch. A delightful bloke. He wanted my number.”

“And you didn’t know it?”

“Er—no.”

“I see.” He seemed more resigned than shocked. “Well, they ain’t ’ere
yet, that’s one thing. Old Fanny in the shop is a good look-out. Lucky
we kept this place so dark. This’ll take a bit of getting away with. Do
you remember anything at all before you got your cosh?”

“No. Nothing. That is, I remember odd things like people’s names, and I
remember the one thing, of course. I remember fifteen.”

“Fifteen?” The little black eyes were suspicious. “That’s more’n I do.
That’s something you never told me.”

“Oh, my God!” Campion turned his face to the wall. It was back again,
the damnable frustration-dream motif. He felt like a man in a stone
maze.

“Don’t you excite yerself or you’ll go under again.” His ally became the
nurse once more. “Keep what little bit of common you ’ave got, for
pity’s sake. I’ve seen some of this sort of thing in my time and I know
what it’s like. You’ve got no bones broke and your eyes are reacting all
right. You’ve just forgot, that’s all. There’s nothing to get the
serious wind-up about in that. Now, am I right? You feel as you do
sometimes, when you first wake up in the morning in a strange bed. Just
for a minute you’ve got a hold of yerself all right but you don’t know
where you are nor what’s gone before. You’re like a man living in that
minute, aren’t yer?”

This somewhat homely description was so apt that Campion turned to stare
at his questioner. The stranger’s white face was very grave and his eyes
were intelligent.

He nodded. “Yes,” he said, “that’s just what I am like.”

His questioner’s reaction was not entirely comforting.

“I’ve known it go on for months and wear off gradual,” he said
unhappily, “and I’ve known it come back as quick as it went. We’d better
get hold of Oates at once. You’re fit for nothing now.”

Campion explained the difficulty in that quarter and the other man’s
anxiety became acute.

“We’re in the cart,” he said. “In the cart good and proper.” Campion
groaned. “Who are we, anyway?” he demanded. “Who are you?”

The fat man did not reply for a minute. There was a curious half-smile
which had nothing to do with amusement on his face. It was some little
time before Campion recognized it for what it was. This odd stranger was
deeply and sentimentally hurt.

“My name is Lugg,” he said at last. “I’ve been a perishing servant of
yours for seventeen years.” There was an awkward pause and then he rose
and stretched himself. “That’s all right,” he said magnificently,
“you’re not to blame. I’d ’ave told you at once only I was hoping it’d
come back to you. ’Ullo, ’ullo, what’s that?”

The lights flickered and a deep full-throated rumbling echoed through
the house. Both men started.

“Thunder,” Lugg pronounced as a whirlwind of heavy drops pattered
against the glass behind the thick curtains. “It got me wondering. It
always does nowadays. Oh well, let it snow if it feels like it. We’ve
got more than we can carry anyway, so what does it matter what else
piles up?”

“How late is it? I can’t waste time.” Campion was struggling to his feet
as he spoke. “Tomorrow’s the fifteenth. Must get on. God knows how.”

“You stay where you are.” Lugg had picked up his revolver and was
playing with it carelessly. “Your head seems to ’ave gone so we’ll ’ave
to use mine for a ruddy change. Now look ’ere, we’re in a very nasty
position. I’m an accessory after the fact, don’t forget that, so I’m
going to tell you all you saw fit to let me know about the lark you’re
on before you lost your senses. You’re going to listen, and we’re both
going to hope it’s going to bring something back to you because if it
don’t we’re both up the creek.”

He was right, of course, Campion had the wits left to realize it even
while every instinct warned him frantically against delay. The thing he
had to avert was enormous and catastrophic.

“Avert.” Once again it was a single word which arrested him. That was
right. There was something he had to avert. Something tremendous.

Meanwhile Lugg was talking and his thick voice sounded comforting and
sensible against the rumbling of the storm outside.

“I’ve only been by your side day and night for seventeen years and you
couldn’t trust me with the whole packet. Said you was under oath,” he
was observing. “If you hadda done, we shouldn’t be in this mess, but I’m
not reproaching you. That’s not my way. Never ’as been. I’ve been here
for five days and this is it, I should suppose. My instructions from you
in London was that I should keep myself under cover ’ere and take all
messages. Old Happy in the shop was to do all the front of the ’ouse
stuff and I wasn’t to show my face until I was told. Happy is quite
okay, by the way. I picked this place of ’is myself. I used to know ’im
years ago when ’e was one of the old Forty Angels gang up at Hoxton.
’E’s straight as a die to ’is own sort. ’E’s keeping the look-out now.
There’s been no one particular about since you came. You must have given
them the slip completely, punch-drunk or not. Now listen. Since I’ve
been ’ere you’ve only showed up twice. The first time was the day before
yesterday. You came in with a portmanteau and that time you were wearing
your ordinary clothes. You changed here into some duds that even my old
dad wouldn’t ’ave worn and went off with a little fish-basket under yer
arm, looking as if you’d been on the tramp from one sick ward to the
next for the last five years. Don’t you remember?”

“No, I don’t. I’m sorry, it’s gone completely.”

“Never mind. Never mind. Don’t strain it or you’ll never get it. Just
listen. I may say something that’ll bring the ’ole thing back.” Lugg was
very earnest and the suppressed anxiety in his matt black eyes belied
his words. “The second time I saw you you came sneaking in by these
french doors ’ere, about three yesterday morning. I was sleeping where
you’re sitting now and I got up and fetched you a bit of food. I asked
’ow things were going, but you didn’t open out at all. You seemed
worried and distant-like, as though you was puzzled by the way things
was running.”

“Was I—was I all right then?” Campion stirred as he spoke. This was one
of the most unnerving experiences of all.

“Oh yes. You’d got yer ’ead screwed on then. You was as bright as I am.
You just seemed sort of mystified, as though things weren’t running the
way you’d thought. About eleven in the morning you slipped out again,
still in yer old clothes, and that was the last time I saw you right in
the head.”

It was an unfortunate way of putting it, but evidently Lugg was one of
those Britons without the celebrated national gift for euphemy.

“You left your little old basket,” he said. “You locked it in the table
drawer, but you took one or two things out of it and put them in your
pockets. About tea-time yesterday Happy came in with a tale that ’e’d
picked up in the shop about you being mixed up in a row down at the
waterside. A rozzer had been killed and two or three men took to
horspital.”

He paused hopefully, but Campion shook his head. In spite of the sudden
chill which this confirmation of his worst fears produced in him, he
still could not remember. Lugg breathed gustily.

“Never mind,” he said again but without any sort of conviction. “Never
mind. It’ll come back sudden. Then young Amanda called for your suitcase
with your good clothes in it,” he went on, “and Happy told her some of
what he’d heard—”

“Yes, I know. She came to the hospital.” Campion spoke absently and did
not see the small black eyes flicker.

“Oh, you’ve seen ’er, ’ave you? Did you recognize ’er?” The jealousy was
very faint, but it was there and Campion noticed it.

“Not for a long time,” he said. “I—er—like a fool I thought she must
be my wife.”

“So she will be in a week or two, if you’re not strung up.” Lugg’s
dreadful directness was irrepressible. The words came into his head and
he said them.

A shadow passed over Campion’s lean wooden face.

“I rather think that’s off,” he said shortly. “She—she didn’t realize
what had happened, you see. She doesn’t know now and I don’t
particularly want her to, so, should you see her, for God’s sake don’t
refer to it. She broke the engagement.”

“_She_ did?” Lugg was clearly incredulous. “Why? ’As she seen someone
else?”

Campion writhed. The discussion was distasteful and also, he discovered,
quite unbearable. (Ah, Amanda! Oh, my blessed smiling sweet! Oh,
sensible, clear-eyed, unembarrassed beloved! Oh, dear God Almighty, what
is to happen to me without you?)

Lugg took his silence for consent, apparently, for he pursed his mouth
and jerked his head with resigned regret.

“I see that coming,” he remarked brutally. “It was your fault for
mucking about. Courting a woman’s like cooking something. There comes a
time when it’s done. After that you had ought to eat it. If you don’t,
and keep it simmering on the side so to speak, you’re apt to forget it
and when you do come to look for it all the goodness is gorn away and
you’re left with nothing but a bit o’ skin. And it annoys the young
woman too. It doesn’t do her any good.”

He paused and glanced at the other man’s face.

“Sorry, cock,” he said abruptly.

Campion said nothing. Outside the storm was working itself up to fury
and the rain hissed and spat against the windows like a host of
serpents.

“Avert something tremendous.” The command blazed at him suddenly,
wrenching him out of his small private hell. “Hurry, hurry. Think,
think. Pull yourself together. Get on with it.”

“Where’s the basket?” he said. “The whole story sounds nuts, but let’s
see it anyway. There may be something in it.”

Lugg looked at him curiously. “Don’t you know what’s in it?”

“No, of course I don’t. Do you?”

“I ’ad a look, naturally. I’m ’uman. The lock on the drawer could be
turned with a bent pin.”

“Oh, all right. What’s in it?”

“I didn’t touch anything, of course,” he said, taking up a piece of wire
which he kept conveniently on the mantelshelf. “It got me wondering,
though.”

He squatted down and poked at the lock. It was child’s play to open, as
he had said, and he pulled out a wide drawer, revealing a fair-sized
rush bag lying inside. Campion thrust his hand in the basket. An
expression of blank amazement spread over his face and he shook the
whole contents out on the table. A slippery, feathery heap of old
one-pound and ten-shilling notes appeared before him.

“Six ’undred and eighty-four pounds exactly,” said Lugg. “I counted it
after you left.”

Campion took up a banknote and rubbed it between his fingers. Then he
held it up to the light. Britannia’s head and trident shone out of the
watermark at him. None of the notes appeared to be new. Their uniform
shabbiness suggested months of circulation.

“Extraordinary,” he said, looking blankly at the fish-basket. “I took
some more out with me, you say?”

“Yes. About seventy quid. You didn’t trouble to count it—what was
that?”

Both men stood listening. At first they thought there was no sound but
the storm, but an instant later there was a gentle thud outside the
inner door and the shopkeeper put his head in.

“Take sights,” he whispered. “They’re all round the house.
Plain-clothes. I’ll watch the front.”

Lugg swept the notes into the basket, thrust it into the drawer, and
pulled back the tablecloth. The whole movement was as smooth as if it
had been done by a conjuror. He thrust a gun into Campion’s hand and
produced another from his hip. He touched the sick man’s arm and nodded
towards the french doors, laying his finger on his lips. Campion nodded
obediently and moved silently into the darkness at the back of the room.

The gentle knocking on the glass sounded like the Last Trump when it did
come.


                                  XII

It was quiet, insistent tapping on the french windows. The gentle
summons was very near and very intimate. It sped through the weeping of
the storm and stood close to them.

They waited in silence and let it come again, still discreet but a
fraction sharper, determined, inexorable.

Lugg glanced over his shoulder. Campion was well in the shadow, so he
picked up his gun and advanced towards the window with all the easy
confidence of an innocent householder expecting a visit from the police.

He drew back the curtains cautiously, as a good citizen should, allowing
only the minimum of light to escape. For some seconds he stood peering
into the darkness, alert as a dog at a rat-hole. Finally he unlatched
the doors and pushed one of them open a few inches.

“’Ullo?” he demanded suspiciously.

There was no direct reply but there was a new movement out in the storm
and Lugg became tense, his bald head with its fringe of greyish hair
held oddly on one side.

Standing just below him in the driving rain was the figure he expected.
The drab mackintosh and slouch hat of the plain-clothes man were there,
but the stranger was not looking at him squarely. He peered up slyly out
of the dark and from his white hand hung a large white handkerchief
which fluttered significantly in the downpour. It was impossible to
mistake its meaning.

Lugg backed slowly into the room and the newcomer came in after, holding
the white rag ostentatiously before him.

He took up a position some little distance from the table and the heavy
shade over the lights cut him off from the breast upwards as far as
Campion was concerned. As soon as the window was closed behind him he
held up his hands.

“You can take my gun,” he said distinctly.

Lugg searched him promptly and efficiently, setting down the man’s heavy
Webley on the table well within the circle of light. Then with a glance
at his visitor he produced his own gun and put it down beside the first.
There was a long pause and then Campion also stretched out a hand in the
darkness and added his weapon to the other two. He kept his face out of
the light, however, as did the newcomer.

They made a curious headless group standing around the three guns, since
all the light in the room focused on the weapons and on their three
pairs of hands. Lugg and Campion maintained their advantage and waited
for the visitor to make the first move.

“I’ve got a message for the man calling himself Campion,” he announced
at last. “That’s you, isn’t it?”

“Never mind which of us it is,” corrected Lugg sharply. “What’s the
dope?”

“_He_ knows.” The stranger spoke meaningly, jerking a hand towards
Campion. “It’s up to him, that’s all.”

This was an unforeseen impasse. Campion’s thin hands remained
expressionless and Lugg’s great ham-fists did not stir. The silence
persisted. The room was hot and its very quiet was ominous and
uncomfortable amid the bellowing of the storm which raged round the
house. Lugg found it unbearable.

“The boys outside’ll get wet,” he observed pleasantly.

“I’m waiting.”

“What do you think we’re doing?”

“He’s only got to make up his mind. He knows.” The visitor had begun to
reveal a personality. He was not a big man and his raincoat hung on him
in concealing folds, yet he managed to convey an impression of wiry
strength curiously and rather horribly allied to ill-health. His voice
was not without culture of a sort, either, but it had a thin tinny ring
to it and when he coughed, as he did frequently, his lungs wheezed and
groaned dangerously. Yet he was a force in the room. There was no
question but that he knew what he was doing and was determined to waste
no time.

Since his head and shoulders were hidden, his hands were his only
distinguishing feature and these were frankly repulsive, being womanish,
degenerate, and quite abominably dirty.

A sixth sense warned Campion to hold his tongue. It was not that the
half seen, headless figure was actually familiar but the atmosphere of
rank evil he brought with him was. Campion left the talking to Lugg, who
seemed quite prepared to deal with it.

“Knowing’s not always saying,” the fat man remarked, managing to infuse
a wealth of craft into the observation. “Your call, mate.”

“_He_ knows,” the newcomer repeated and one of his repellent hands slid
inside his raincoat.

The two others had their guns up off the table like one man. They
waited, the two weapons, levelled and the two barrels gleaming dully in
the circle of light.

The visitor did not waver or hesitate. He went on with what he was doing
smoothly. He seemed to have considerable experience of guns. His hand
came out of his coat with something in it. He laid his offering on the
red tablecloth and they all looked at it. It was a thick packet of old
banknotes secured with a rubber band.

“Two-fifty,” he said, “and we ask no questions.”

Lugg laughed. It was a genuine expression of surprised amusement and was
entirely convincing. The newcomer was standing very still. Campion could
feel him trying to pierce the shadow which shrouded both their heads. He
made no movement himself and kept his gun steady.

Once again the dirty hand crept inside the sodden coat and presently
another packet lay on top of the first. Once more the silence became
suffocating.

The performance was very slow, definitely sinister, and, of course, in
the circumstances entirely fantastic.

“Chicken feed,” said Lugg thickly and a third packet of notes appeared
on the table and finally a fourth.

“That’s the limit,” said the stranger at last. “Take it or leave it.
Suit yourself.”

“And suppose it’s a deal?” Lugg was showing more finesse in an
impossible situation than Campion would have expected from him.

“He quits his racket and gets out.”

“Where to?”

“London. Hell. Anywhere. We’re not fussy.”

Campion’s condition was making him slow-witted. It had taken him some
minutes to realize that he was not dealing with the police, as he had
expected. This man on the other side of the table, whose face he could
not see, represented a new element in a complicated and terrifying
predicament. He represented the element which until now had been
maddeningly elusive. Here at last must be a definite materialization of
the enemy. Campion’s limping brain seized on the discovery and he
struggled to make as many bricks as he might out of this meagre straw.

The stranger belonged to a very definite class. He was a thug, one of
that mercifully small army of professional bullies who in previous ages
were euphoniously called “soldiers of fortune”; men, that is, who would
undertake violence for a fee. It did not occur to Campion that it was
strange that he should recognize so much. He accepted the fact without
thinking, as a natural deduction based on some past experience which he
had forgotten. He went on with his reasoning. Since the man was what he
was it argued that he possessed employers, some intelligent organization
which had the sense to use professional servants. The question now was
what sort of organization? It was obviously anti-social, but how large?
How dangerous? How big? International importance?

The old phrase came into his head and he rejected it. It was not quite
right. National importance? That was it. He had heard something like
that described lately and in some connexion which, taken together, had
had an extraordinary effect upon him. It was an amazing experience. He
was remembering something not mentally but emotionally. The ghost of an
emotional upheaval was returning to him. It was both terrifying and
exhilarating. The whole thing was recent, too, very recent. Anger was
coming back to him and with it something else, something new and
overwhelming, a passion. That was it. Something deeper than affection,
something more primitive and disturbing than love of women.

For a moment he felt it again, experienced it as he had done some time
so very lately, a burning, raging, invigorating thing, the stuff of
poetry and high imagining, the fountain-spring of superhuman endurance
and endeavour.

Once again a fact came to him without recollection. He knew something
suddenly as surely and clearly as if he had arrived at it by a long
process of thought.

He belonged to a post-war generation, that particular generation which
was too young for one war and most prematurely too old for the next. It
was the generation which had picked up the pieces after the holocaust
indulged in by its elders, only to see its brave new world wearily
smashed again by younger brothers. His was the age which had never known
illusion, the grimly humorous generation which from childhood had both
expected and experienced the seamier side. Yet now, recently, some time
very lately, so near in time that the tingle of surprise still lingered,
something new had appeared on his emotional horizon. It had been
something which so far he had entirely lacked and which had been born to
him miraculously late in his life. He saw it for what it was. It was a
faith, a spiritual and romantic faith. It had been there always, of
course, disguised as a rejected illusion, and must have lain there for
years like a girl growing to maturity in her sleep. Now it was awake all
right and recognizable; a deep and lovely passion for his home, his
soil, his blessed England, his principles, his breed, his Amanda and
Amanda’s future children. That was the force which was driving him. That
was the fire which was crowding him on through and over the obscene
obstacle of his own unnatural weakness.

He glanced towards the man with the filthy hands. This, then, this
professional crook, this must be a hair on the hide of the Enemy, and,
like the zoologists, from this one hair he must somehow reconstruct a
whole beast. For God’s sake what organization was he up against, and
what particular machination was it engaged upon now?

He pulled himself up, despair facing him. He was annihilatingly
helpless. He knew so horribly little, even about himself. For instance,
what sort of man was he, if this enemy, which was shrewd enough in all
conscience, should so confidently expect to be able to bribe him?

A possible explanation of that final question occurred to him. It was so
absurd and yet so likely that he laughed outright. Bending forward
suddenly, he allowed the full light from the chandelier to fall upon his
face.

It succeeded. Miraculously the outside chance came home, proving him
right beyond all question. The effect on the man was immediate and
sensational. He drew in a gulping breath and there was a faint rattle
from the dreadful lungs.

“Campion!” he ejaculated in a thin voice. “Campion. You _are_ Campion.”

He dived forward to snatch up his gun but Lugg was before him, bringing
down his own revolver across the grimy wrist as it shot out over the
cloth. It was a tremendous blow which might well have cracked the bone,
and the sound it made was one of those ruthless noises which are
inexplicably shocking in themselves.

The man sobbed once, deep in his throat, with pain, and then, before
either of the others realized what he was doing, he turned and rushed
from them, leaving gun and money still on the table. He threw himself at
the window and burst out into the storm, leaving the curtains bellying
behind him as a gust of rain surged into the room. Lugg stood gaping
after him. Presently he went over and closed the window. He swore
steadily for some little time.

“What d’you know about that?” he said at last. “Dirty little tyke! He
made me sit up the moment I saw ’im. ’Oo’s ’e working for?”

Campion felt himself giggling. The money and the gun and the ridiculous
mistake were all absurdities out of a nightmare.

“I think I know that,” he said, recovering himself. “I’m sure only one
person could come to the conclusion that I was impersonating myself. Who
was that man? I never saw his face clearly.”

“That was no loss.” Lugg was grimly amused. “I know ’im, and I’d like to
know ’oo ’e’s sold ’is mortgaged little soul to this time. You know ’im
all right. That was Weaver, B.”

He mistook Campion’s blank expression for lack of recollection and
hurried on to explain, all his old anxiety about the younger man’s
condition returning.

“You’ll remember his brother better,” he said coaxingly. “Weaver, T. A.
They were both in the army together one time and they distinguished them
like that, using the initials last. You remember them. I’ll tell you ’oo
they was both working for when we struck them last. Simister. The man we
kept calling Ali Baba. Doesn’t that ring a bell? Weaver, T. A., wasn’t
the class this chap is. He ’adn’t the brains. He was killed with a
tommy-gun when the Denver boys came over. This little sweep Weaver, B.,
went in for jam-jars afterwards. ’E’s a wizard with a petrol engine. If
’e’s in this there’s something big going on in the car line. Does that
bring anything ’ome?”

Campion thought of the fleet of trucks in the hidden garage under the
crouching body of the Nag and he nodded. His brain was working
feverishly. It was Pyne again, of course. Pyne was the man who had
assumed that he was another crook trying to muscle in on a racket by
impersonating Albert Campion. What about Pyne, then? What about his
questions and his “amusing organization”? And his snooping about at the
Institute?

He glanced at the pile of money on the table.

“They’re not broke, anyway,” he said.

“They are not.” Lugg’s heartfelt agreement was unexpected. He was very
serious and his small black eyes were open to their widest extent.
“They’re a powerful crowd,” he said. “Money to burn. There was a sort of
share-out down here before we came, you know. The drunks filled every
can in the place. Happy said ’e never saw anything like it. ’E reckons
they’re on to something colossal, something that’ll need a lot of men
from the way money has been splashing around.”

He gathered up the cash on the table and rolled back the cloth.

“Wicked to waste it,” he remarked virtuously.

The drawer was only just closed when the shopkeeper appeared behind
them. His startled face came edging round the inner door.

“They’ve scarpered,” he said, using the rhyming-slang which still serves
a fraternity needing a patois. “Only one of ’em left. He’s leaning
against the wall of a door or two down the road. What happened?”

“Nothing to interest you, my lad.” Lugg was heavily jocular. “Someone
came along to make what you might call an extravagant gesture, that’s
all.”

“I don’t like it.” Their host was inclined to whine. “It’s dangerous.
There’s some pretty funny chaps in this town just now. I saw ‘Lily’
Pettican walking down the street this morning.”

“Lily?” Lugg was clearly astounded. “You’ve got the ’orrors,” he said.

“If it wasn’t Lily, it was ’is brother ’oo ’appened to ’ave lost the
same eye,” the old man persisted. “Chew on that.”

“Go away.” Lugg was not amused. His small eyes were frightened.

“All right, but I’ve got something for yer. What d’yer say to this lot?”
He wriggled into the room through the smallest possible aperture and
presented one of those long narrow ledger-books in which small
shopkeepers often keep their orders. It was open at the last page and he
pointed to the final entry made in his own wildest handwriting.

“A.C.” it ran. “The White Hart, private sitting-room. Immediately. Come
clean.”

Both Lugg and Campion read the line and exchanged glances.

“Where the hell did you get that from?”

“From a woman.” The shopkeeper did not seem particularly surprised. “She
came in just before I shut the shop. I was just going to lock the doors
after giving you the word the busies were about. She was about fifty, I
suppose. Very respectable, you know. I hadn’t never seen ’er before. She
came up to the counter and said could I get ’er _Heartsease Novels_
every week. I said I could and I got out my book to take ’er name. When
I was ready she simply dictated that lot. After I’d written it down she
said thank you very much and went out. A.C., that stands for you,
doesn’t it, Guv’nor? Albert Campion, that’s your name.”

Lugg turned to his employer. He was completely startled.

“But they were ’ere,” he said stupidly. “They didn’t know you were A.C.
then. Lumme, see what it means? See what it means? It’s someone else.
It’s not them at all. ‘Come clean’? ’Oo the ’ell is it?”

The little shopkeeper looked at his excited face and shook his head.

“That’s all I know, what I’ve told you,” he began. “The White Hart’s
that big hotel in the middle of the town. Nothing could happen to you
there, that’s one thing mortal certain. It can’t even be a try-on. More
people know you than you know people.”

“You’re telling me,” said Campion fervently.


                                  XIII

“What are you going to do?”

The enquiry crept into the almighty muddle of confused thoughts and
emotions in Campion’s tortured mind and opened out like a great
question-mark-shaped hole of nothingness.

He did not answer because both men were looking at him confidently and
he saw that he should have no help from them in his decision. He was the
Boss still; they relied on him.

He was trying to marshal some sort of order among his scattered forces
when another secret question shot out at him. Just how ill am I? Just
how serious is this damned injury? Am I going to curl up and die from
it, and if so, how long have I got? He put that query from him
impatiently. He guessed he’d find that out when the time came.
Meanwhile, what _was_ he going to do?

There was something just under his nose which he had missed. He felt it
was there and he groped for it. When at last he found it it grinned at
him with the dreadful cross-eyed leer of complete insanity. This was the
fourteenth. Moreover this was the evening of the fourteenth. Therefore,
all the arrangements for the catastrophe, or whatever it was which he
was struggling so blindly to avert, must have been made already, and the
thing itself be on the very point of happening. And yet Pyne, or the
Enemy, whoever he was, had been prepared to try to buy him off even at
this eleventh hour. That argued that he was still dangerous to this
unknown. How? What could he do now, this minute? What was there to do?

He glanced at the remarkable message in the notebook and then at the man
who had written it. The shopkeeper had come forward and the light was on
his face. It was not so much that sterling honesty shone from his eyes.
It didn’t. He looked shifty and disreputable. But he was also puzzled.
The message clearly fascinated him. He had no idea what it meant or from
whom it came. He would like to have known. He, too, waited expectantly.

“I’ll go down there,” said Campion.

“I’ll come with yer.” Lugg was shaking off his carpet-slippers as he
spoke. “You’ll be less noticeable if we go together.”

“I don’t think so.” Campion spoke frankly. If there is one human
peculiarity which cannot be disguised it is fat. A fat man is
distinctive at any distance. Lugg could scarcely hope to pass anywhere
unobserved.

“There’s a busy up the street, don’t forget,” said the shopkeeper.

“How do you know it’s a busy?” Lugg was tolerantly contemptuous.

“Because I see ’is face and I know ’im. ’E’s been round ’ere once or
twice. The other lot went away. ’E didn’t.”

This was important information. The police were the one body who, so far
as Campion knew for a fact, had definite cause to want to lay hands on
him, but if they had actually located him it seemed highly peculiar that
they should not come in and get him. The probable explanation was, of
course, that they had not located him but were keeping an eye on one of
the others in case they should try to contact him.

“I’ll take you past the busy,” said the shopkeeper unexpectedly. “I’ve
got my own way out. I’ll go first, you come behind. I’ll lead you right
to the White Hart. It’s not easy to find if you don’t know the town.”

“I’m to stay ’ere?” Lugg enquired dubiously.

“Yes,” said the shopkeeper.

Lugg looked at Campion silently. He was pathetic and Campion could have
murdered him. What right had he to lean like this, to sit childlike and
helpless, relying on a superior intelligence?—which, God help them all,
was no longer there. It was the original Campion’s own fault. The new
Campion felt he had the grace to recognize that. He had a vision of a
damned superior young man who must always have been laughingly tolerant,
gloriously sure of himself. The new Campion turned from him with
loathing. A fine chuckleheaded ass he must have been to surround himself
with dear, faithful, pathetic followers incapable of independent
thought; fawners, seekers after orders.

“I’ll give you a couple of hours,” said Lugg, shattering the illusion.
“If you’re not back then I’ll come and save your ruddy life again. It
won’t be the first time. Don’t forget you’re not right in the ’ead now,
either.”

Campion set out with the shopkeeper. Both he and Lugg appeared to have
brought the art of avoiding police supervision to a high state of
perfection. Campion was provided with a shabby raincoat and a peaked
cap. It was no disguise but rather a badge of some unspecific but
respectable office. As he put them on he became just another
taxi-driver, bus conductor, chauffeur, St John ambulance man, or gas
inspector hurrying home to get out of his working clothes.

The shopkeeper led him out of the back door into a minute yard and out
of that into another and another, all symmetrical and uniform as a
section of a dusty egg-box.

They came out finally into an entirely different quarter of the town, a
solid residential district of ornate Victorian houses with transoms over
the doors and high surprised windows with little apartment cards in
them.

The shopkeeper scurried along in front. In his dirty overcoat and dented
bowler hat he looked as frail and negligible as a piece of sodden brown
paper blown along by the bullying wind.

The storm itself had passed but there was still a lot of rain about.
There was just enough light to see one’s way, but the going was not too
easy and the pavements looked washed and sticky, like pieces of
half-sucked toffee.

Campion did not notice the town. It took every ounce of concentration
which he still possessed to follow the little wisp of a figure in front.
His legs were heavy and his head swam.

He was so intent on the mere physical task that he did not notice the
carved portico of the White Hart until he was almost directly under the
famous sign and was so close to the doorway that he was forced to turn
straight in through the light-trap arranged over the double doors. He
was walking quickly and stepped slap into a bright lounge full of
people, most of whom turned and looked at him enquiringly.

Every town in England has one hostelry like the White Hart. It is always
a grand old inn where either Charles Dickens or Queen Elizabeth spent a
night and which modern motor traffic has made once more fashionable. In
these ancient houses rooms are knocked together, beams are uncovered,
mighty fire-places are filled with false logs with red electric bulbs
tucked under them, and in the roughcast walls mock casements show
painted musical comedy settings through their diamond panes. The food is
usually good, the service appalling, and the atmosphere about as cosy
and cliquey as the school hall on prize-giving day. Practically every
man in the room was in khaki on this occasion. Campion, who had no
recollection of ever having seen anything like it before, was completely
bewildered. Fortunately his astonishment fitted his somewhat unsuitable
costume and no one among the little parties clustered round the small
tables gave him a second look. A growing youth in a tail suit far too
small for him hurried forward enquiringly, anxious to direct him to the
saloon bar round the corner. Campion looked at him helplessly and said
the first thing to come into his head.

“I want someone in a private room. I’ve been told to come here.”

The boy regarded him dubiously and scuttled into a small office half
hidden in a mass of oaken tracery far more suitable to the rood-screen
for which it had originally been carved. He came out again with the
landlord, a dapper elderly man with a military cut to his clothes and
bored eyes.

“Yes,” he said.

“My name is Albert Campion.”

“Really?” His surprise was genuine and terror seized the man who had
just come in. What a fool thing to do? What a lunatic he was! What a
benighted idiot! Both sections of society thirsting for his blood, no
time to lose, disaster imminent, and he had to go and give his name to
the first stranger who raised an eyebrow at him. He was so appalled that
he hardly noticed the landlord until he realized that the man had gone
over to the foot of the main staircase and now stood waiting for him to
follow.

They went upstairs in silence and paused before a crooked door with the
fine thin panels of the Tudors. The landlord knocked and bent his head
to listen. Campion heard nothing, but presently the other man seemed
satisfied, for he threw open the door and announced “Mr Albert Campion”
as if he had been a flunkey.

Campion went in. It was a wide, low-ceilinged room, badly lit,
possessing an uneven floor, antique furniture, and a genuine coal fire.
At first he thought he was alone and his misgivings rose up
reproachfully. He turned to try the door but it was not even properly
closed, much less locked. As he moved somebody coughed on the other side
of the room.

It was a ladylike sound and he swung back just in time to see a small
figure rising up out of the shadows of a winged chair which he had
presumed to be empty. A little old woman stood before him.

He was astounded. She came nervously towards him, simpering a little,
and with two bright spots of embarrassment in her faded cheeks. She held
out her hand, but shyly, and as if she felt that she was being forward.

“This is so awkward,” she murmured. “I don’t think we’ve met?” Her voice
trailed away and he became uncomfortably aware that she was put out by
his mackintosh and the peaked cap in his hand. Socially the situation
was absurd. Even factually it was peculiar.

They shook hands and stood looking at one another. The woman was over
seventy and frail. Her thin grey hair was parted demurely and she wore a
dark silk dress with bits of lace on it.

“You’re not quite as I expected you,” she said nervously. “Forgive me, I
don’t quite mean that. I’m sure I’m very glad to meet you like this. Sit
down, will you? It’s very cold, is it not?”

She was completely out of her element and very annoyed with herself for
showing it. Suddenly she dabbed her eyes.

“It’s all been such a shock,” she said unsteadily, “but this is quite
unpardonable. So silly of me. I really ought never to have come.”

“Oh Lord!” said Campion. He was under the impression that he had spoken
under his breath, but to his horror his voice, clear, brusque, and
unnaturally loud, echoed back at him from the shadowy walls. An inner
door which he had not noticed before opened at once and, as though in
direct answer to prayer, Amanda stood on the threshold.

Hallucination! The dreadful possibility shot into his mind and
frightened every other consideration out of it. She looked so fine and
fit and young and alive. Her brown suit matched her eyes and her head
sat sanely on her shoulders. She was lovely, she was kind, she was
friendly, a right thing in a ghastly unrealistic world. That was it; she
was an oasis. No, of course, a mirage! One of those things you see
before you die of thirst in a desert and the vultures come and pick your
bones into decency before you decay.

“Oh beautiful,” he said and had not spoken the words so guilelessly
since he had first said them, leaning out of his go-cart to look at the
sea.

Her fine eyebrows rose into arcs on her forehead.

“I heard your voice,” she said. “I’m so sorry I wasn’t here when you
came. Have you and Miss Anscombe met?”

A great portion of the world slid into the horizontal again at the
command of that cool voice and all the lovely machinery for living, like
manners and introductions and calling-cards and giving up one’s seat in
the bus, began to whirr comfortingly in the background of the scene.

The old lady appeared to appreciate it as much as he did. She raised her
head and smiled.

“I’m being very stupid, my dear,” she said. “I hadn’t realized how
shaken I am. You must ask Mr Campion to forgive me.”

“I think he’s been a bit shaken himself.” There was warning as well as
apology in Amanda’s tone and she considered the forlorn figure in the
tight mackintosh with interest. “I’ve got Miss Anscombe to come along
herself to tell you one or two things, Albert,” she went on. “Very
kindly she came along to see me and . . .”

“I went to her because she looked so sensible and so sympathetic,”
interrupted the old lady. “I felt I ought to approach someone and
naturally one has a horror of the police at such a time. I prefer to
talk to a woman of course.”

“Of course,” said Campion so earnestly that again Amanda stared at him
as if he were demented. He fought to get hold of the situation, but it
was all hopeless. His memory had deserted him. He sighed. “Why?” he
added disastrously.

“Well naturally, Albert.” Amanda caught the dropping brick with both
hands and struggled with it manfully. “I mean, since her brother’s death
she’s been frightfully hurt and shaken, and she hasn’t felt like talking
to just anyone.”

Her brother. Miss Anscombe. Of course! The name had not registered on
him before. He understood at last. This must be the sister of the
murdered man whom Lee Aubrey had kept talking about. It came into his
head that Aubrey might have sent Amanda here now and the possibility
irked him unreasonably.

The old lady tucked her handkerchief into her belt and leant forward
purposefully.

“Mr Campion,” she said, “I’m a very strong-minded woman and all my life
I’ve gone out of my way to do what I thought was right.”

It was a formidable opening at the best of times and to Campion, who was
not experiencing one of them, it sounded like a confession of early
suicide. He nodded.

“Yes?” he said.

“Well, that’s why I’ve come here now, to talk about poor Robert. We
shall never know how he died. He was a very weak person in some ways and
if he had taken his own life I should have been very sorry and very
hurt, but I should not have been surprised.”

Campion remained unimpressed. He knew how Anscombe had died and that
information was enough to startle this old duck into screaming
hysterics. It was only when he caught sight of Amanda watching him
earnestly that he realized what the old woman was trying to tell him. Of
course Anscombe had known! Anscombe had been the best bet. Oates had
said so. He turned to the old lady so eagerly that he bewildered her.

“Was your brother frightened of something?” he demanded.

She bridled and he was aware of her rather hard blue eyes with their
bald rims and wrinkled sockets.

“He had something on his conscience,” she said. “I always felt he was
just going to confide in me but he never did. I have a very rigid code,”
she added naïvely.

“Tell Albert about the money,” put in Amanda.

Money? More money? This cash motif cropped up all the time. It
frightened Campion. The Tory Englishman never underestimates the power
of money as a weapon. It is his own, and when he sees it against him he
feels betrayed as well as anxious.

Miss Anscombe cleared her throat. Having embarked on a distasteful duty
she was determined to get every ounce of virtue out of it.

“He never told me that he was in financial difficulties, but it was very
obvious some little time ago,” she began. “I realized that he was hard
put to it and I helped him to a certain extent. He was quite sick with
worry, naturally, for we had a certain position in the town to keep up
and he was a man who understood the importance of doing his duty to the
community in that respect. Also he had the Secretaryship to think of.
That is a very sacred responsibility, Mr Campion.”

“I suppose it is.”

“Our family have thought so for seven generations,” she said stiffly.
“If you don’t realize what it must have meant to him to resign that
office, you can hardly appreciate anything I’m trying to tell you.”

“He does understand,” cut in Amanda hastily. “He’s terribly tired and
worried himself. Albert, for the love of Mike take off that awful
mackintosh.”

He obeyed her and realized as Miss Anscombe looked at him that his suit
was crumpled and his linen grubby. What in God’s name did it matter? The
old lady exasperated him with her ridiculous niceties in the midst of
this maelstrom. Why didn’t she cut the cackle and come to the horses?
What had Anscombe known? Didn’t she realize that there was no time to
waste? He could have shaken the facts out of her and was within an ace
of telling her so when she spoke again.

“When my brother suddenly became comparatively wealthy again I was
astounded,” she said. “I knew then that things were not at all as they
should be. We come of a class, Mr Campion, which never acquires money
suddenly, except by legacy. For a little while my brother was almost
happy, but gradually a great change came over him. His conscience was
haunting him.”

Campion stared at her. In spite of his preoccupation some of the urgent
tragedy in her story forced itself through to him. He saw her world
vividly, with painful clarity. He saw the narrow, self-important old man
clinging to his inherited privileges amid a snowstorm of falling shares,
rising prices, fleecing taxes, whispers in the towns, nudges, older
clothes, tradesmen waiting, and silly little economies which did no
good.

“What did he do?” he said, his eyes reflecting some of the awe in her
own.

“I’m not perfectly sure.” Now that she was holding him she was less
antagonistic. They had become fellow investigators, gossips with a
licence. “For a long time I couldn’t bring myself to consider it, but
now that he’s dead I feel I must tell all that I do know. I’m afraid
poor Robert sold his honour and his integrity, Mr Campion. I think he
must have used his position as Secretary of the Masters to permit some
sort of smuggling to go on in those caves under the Nag. And then later
I think he changed his mind and was trying to expiate the sin he had
committed. I don’t know how he died. If it was an accident it was the
hand of God, but if he took his own life, or if someone else killed him,
I shouldn’t be in the least surprised. I’ve lived through several wars
and one can’t do that without realizing that the world contains violent
men.”

Campion felt the muscles at the corners of his jaw contracting. This was
truth. This was a break. At last a real break, if only he had the wits
to assimilate it.

“Smuggling what?” he enquired.

“I don’t know. I’m only guessing that,” she reminded him quickly. “But
there was a Mr Feiberg who came to the house once or twice to see my
brother. That was in the spring of ’thirty-nine, when my brother was
most hard pressed for money. After he left Robert began to talk about
the Nag and about the smuggling that was done there in the seventeenth
century. He covered it up at once, of course, but I never forgot it. Mr
Feiberg came twice after that, but never after the war broke out. I
mentioned him at once, of course, because he was an alien and my brother
said definitely then ‘We shan’t see him again.’”

“Had your brother acquired his new money then?”

“Yes,” she said, “yes, he had, but it was after that that his conscience
began to prick him.”

“Long after?”

“No.” She paused. There was uncertainty in her whole poise. She waited
until he was exasperated with her and then, with an apologetic smile,
came out with the one remark in the world which could have brought him
up on his toes and re-kindled a flicker of hope in his heart.

“I mustn’t mislead you,” she said. “I think his conscience slept until
he heard of fifteen.”

“Fifteen?” His voice failed and he whispered the word.

She ignored the interruption.

“It must have been then that he saw his terrible mistake. I think he did
everything he could after that. He decided to resign his Secretaryship.
He drew out every penny he had in the bank, and he was bringing it back
with him yesterday when you drove him home. Also this morning his bank
manager called on me and told me in confidence that Robert gave
instructions for his securities to be turned into cash and the money
delivered to him.”

“But that’s extraordinary!” Amanda spoke before she saw the pitfall,
and, having seen it, went on sturdily. “I mean, that doesn’t look like
suicide. That suggests to me that he was going to clear out.”

“Yes.” Miss Anscombe was not offended. It was evident she held no very
high opinion of her brother. “It does, doesn’t it? Unless, you see, he
meant to give it all back to someone. We shall never know and I prefer
to be charitable.”

Campion was not listening to them. His ears were still tingling from the
shock of hearing that one most elusive, most tantalizing word of all,
the keynote and symbol of the whole maddening enigma.

“Tomorrow is the fifteenth,” he said stupidly.

“I didn’t refer to the date.” The old lady made the remark with complete
conviction. “I don’t know exactly what fifteen refers to, but it isn’t a
day of the month.”

“How do you know?” Even then he did not believe her. The tension was
still there, straining every nerve in his body, urging him to hurry.

“Because of the diary.” She had been holding the little pocket-book all
the time and he had not noticed. Now he would have snatched it from her,
but she was not to be hurried. “Robert was a very unmethodical man,” she
remarked with exasperating deliberation. “I thought the book was empty
at first but then I found just these two entries. Here’s the first, just
over a month ago. Look for yourself. It’s almost as though the poor man
bought the book just to write something melodramatic in it. That would
have been very like him.”

Campion took the book and Amanda looked over his shoulder.

“Friday the 7th,” they read. “Just heard of Minute Fifteen. See it all.
What have I done?”

The following pages were blank until they came to the space allotted to
the day before the one on which its owner had died.

“Done,” he had written, “Done at last. Conscience clearer. Resigned.
Expiation must follow. Shall I see Henry Bull?”

On the following page, and right across the three days it represented,
two words had been scribbled large.

“_Minute Fifteen._”

Campion sat down. The train had snapped. He felt flat and exhausted. If
the fifteenth was not a date there was no hurry. As he sat gazing at the
page, however, the three printed dates stood out in relief. Sixteenth?
Seventeenth? Eighteenth? Which? None of them or all of them?

The insufferable burden of anxiety returned more heavily than before.
Weaver, B.’s mission became more rational and therefore more serious.
Fifteen itself was still a mystery. “Minute Fifteen” might mean
anything.

Miss Anscombe rose to her feet.

“Where is Annie?” she enquired, looking at Amanda.

“In the next room, waiting for you. Are you sure she can take you home
all right?”

“My dear, don’t let her hear you say that.” The old lady laughed as she
spoke. “Annie used to be my personal maid. Now I think she’s my
guardian. She delivered the message safely to you, did she, Mr Campion?”

“Eh? Oh yes, rather. Brilliantly. Was that your maid?” Campion was
talking without thinking and he bundled his scattering thoughts together
impatiently. “I’m afraid she must have thought it a rather
unconventional method of approach,” he said apologetically.

Miss Anscombe patted Amanda’s hand.

“Not at all,” she said unexpectedly. “These are unconventional times.
We’re not blind. It’s no good being conventional in a world which is
blowing up all round one. When the streets become a shambles one has to
raise one’s skirts. Good-bye. I don’t know if I’ve been helpful, but at
least I’ve cleared my conscience without giving poor miserable Robert’s
mistakes over to the police.”

“Wait.” Campion was still clinging to the pocket diary. “Who is Henry
Bull?”

Both women stared at him. Miss Anscombe looked startled.

“Sir Henry is a Conservative and one of the Tey family,” she said. “At
the moment he’s the Senior Master of Bridge and a Junior Lord of the
Treasury.”

“Don’t be silly; you know that,” said Amanda. “Besides, we met him,
didn’t we, at your sister’s wedding?”


                                  XIV

Amanda came back into the room after seeing Miss Anscombe and her maid
out. She closed the door carefully behind her.

“I say, what’s the matter with you?” she demanded.

He eyed her guiltily and got up to get away from her searching enquiry.

“I’m all right. When the wind is southerly I can tell a hawk from a
handsaw.”

The quotation escaped out of some shrouded cupboard in his mind without
any context, so that he heard the words as though for the first time.
They meant nothing to him now he considered them and left him
considerably startled.

“That’s good,” said Amanda. “The fancy dress was a mistake,” she added,
picking up the peaked cap. “I told you to come clean. She’s that sort of
old pet. I thought that would warn you.”

“Oh I see. I’m sorry. It never occurred to me to take the words
literally. I didn’t realize the message came from you, you see.”

“You . . . ?” She swung round and stared at him. He did not understand
her expression. She was astonished, but also, in some indefinable way,
hurt. “But we’ve used that sort of language between ourselves for years
and years,” she said at last.

“Oh, yes,” he agreed in horror as he saw the trap. “Yes, we have,
haven’t we? I forgot.”

He expected her to be angry with him. Any woman would be. He was
grateful that he had said it. Those intelligent young eyes terrified
him. He needed her beside him with an unbearable urgency quite out of
character. He was not the sort of man who ought ever to need the moral
support of anyone else on earth with this dreadful sick anxiety. Once
she knew the truth about him she’d stick to him with all that eager
generosity which was her mainspring. She’d be so kind, so sorry. Pity,
filthy humiliating weakening pity! Nauseating compassion! His soul
retched at it—the ultimate concentrated essence of second-best.

His earlier determination to hold her at whatever cost shrank before
that price. To have forced her into fidelity might have been admissible
and even pleasurable, but to sneak it, to grovel round it, and prize it
up this most repulsive of all ways, that was too much. He hadn’t come to
that yet.

He glanced across the room at her. She was sitting on the arm of a
chair, looking half her age. Her short skirt showed her knees and her
thin arms were folded on her chest. She grinned at him.

“You’re up to something you don’t want me to know about,” she said.
“That’s all right. Don’t fluff.”

“I’m not fluffing.” The protest sounded childish and he could have
smacked her. She was so like that. They seemed to get on to schoolroom
terms the moment they spoke together. He must have known her very well
for a long time.

“Sorry,” said Amanda. “To me you fluff. Miss Anscombe sounded as if she
might have been being useful. Was she?”

“She was, very. I hope she keeps her mouth shut now. Aubrey suggested
that you brought her along, did he?”

Campion was watching her very closely and he thought he saw her change
colour.

“No,” she said. “No, he didn’t, as it happens. I rather edged her off
Lee.”

“I see. You’re going back there now, are you?”

“If you think I ought to.”

“My dear girl, that’s your affair entirely.” Campion hoped he was not
bickering.

To his consternation she got up and came over to him.

“Look here, Albert,” she said with unusual earnestness, “I’m not asking
for any explanation, of course. Our usual arrangement stands. You know
exactly what you’re doing and I’m only out to be useful, but just at the
moment I’m probably rather slow. I’m not too good. I’ve had a bit of a
shock, as a matter of fact. I’ll tell you about it later, when I’m
better. But at the moment it’s making me a bit ingrowing and slow on the
uptake and I don’t see what you’re up to at all. I don’t know what to
look for. I don’t even know if I’ve done the right thing about Hutch.”

Hutch? Good heavens, of course! The Superintendent. Campion hoped that
the sweat which had broken out on his face was not visible. The
nightmare was riding him with a vengeance. It was bad enough to have
one’s previous life wiped clean off the slate on one’s mind without
developing this new propensity for forgetting any act of violence which
came his way. First it had been Anscombe’s murder and now it was his own
attack on the unfortunate Superintendent.

“What did you do?” he enquired anxiously.

“Well, I convinced him that you were you, to start with. That took a bit
of doing, but I got it into all their heads in the end. Then”—she
coughed delicately—“then I said you were never afraid to take the
unconventional line if the urgency of the job demanded it.”

“How did they take that?”

“Not too well,” she admitted. “You can’t blame them, Albert. It was
pretty drastic and high-hat, wasn’t it? Very unlike you, too,” she added
after a pause. “You’re not much like yourself at the moment. You’ll find
the police looking for you, by the way. They’re not entirely satisfied
and Hutch wants his car, for one thing.”

Campion held his breath. He could just remember that there must have
been a car, but what had happened to it or to himself between the moment
when he had knocked out the Superintendent and had subsequently walked
into the paper shop he had no idea.

This was dreadful. Amanda must find him out at any minute now. Her trust
was heart-rending, too. He wished she would not treat him with the blind
faith of the silly little sister who follows her brother up the elm
tree.

“You knew where to find me yourself,” he remarked. “How was that?”

Again that look of hurt bewilderment.

“That was our arrangement, wasn’t it?” She did not speak of the car
again and he guessed that his reticence must be part of their
arrangement also. Evidently she was his lieutenant. She offered any
information she found but their plan of campaigning was entirely his
own.

“I must see Henry Bull,” he said.

“Ye-es.” Her hesitation was fractional but it infuriated him.

“What else can I do?” he demanded. “Stanislaus has disappeared and
someone has got to explain this damned fifteen.”

She sat up stiffly, her eyes widening.

“But I thought you knew. I thought you’d been given all the hush-hush
dope and that you and Oates were holding the entire baby between you,
because nobody dare risk any sort of leakage. I didn’t realize that you
were in the dark at all. No wonder you’re so jittery.”

He looked at her as she stood over him. His taut brown face was
expressionless.

“Do you find me jittery?”

Amanda laughed. It was spontaneous amusement and her heart-shaped face
was alive and sane and lovely.

“I find you theatrical, stinker,” she said. “What’s up?”

He took her hand and swung her arm to and fro. He had seen someone else
do that. It had been Lee Aubrey. That was right; it had been that
blighter Lee. He had done this, leaning against the doorpost, peering
down.

“I can’t look at you with great constipated cow’s eyes,” Campion said
suddenly. His wretchedness had assembled the words and they were out of
his mouth before he could censor them.

Amanda drew her hand away. Then she boxed his ears.

It was a gesture rather than a blow, very light and very quick. There
was no smile on her face now and no animation. Her fine bones made a
stamp, a die of quality, and she was as remote from him as if she had
died.

He stumbled to his feet and stood looking at her wildly. At that moment
every restraining consideration seemed utterly absurd. She was part of
himself and she was lost. Her going would mean partial disintegration.
He felt himself cracking hopelessly, shamefully, before her eyes.

The tap on the inner door came from another world. They both swung round
to stare at the handle as it turned. Lugg came tip-toeing in, bouncing a
little like a descending balloon.

“Watch out,” he said. “They’re on the doorstep.”

“Who?” It was Amanda who spoke. She seemed perfectly normal and at ease.

“The busies are downstairs. The Inspector is in the lounge and ’e’s got
two men just outside on the door. The proprietor ’ere doesn’t want any
fuss on ’is premises, thank you, and the Inspector’s being obliging.”
The fat man dominated the room and his little eyes were bright and
excited under the jutting peak of his flat cap. “The back doors aren’t
’ealthy either,” he went on. “I see the Lily ’imself down there, not to
mention Nervy Williams and one or two more. You got a hornet’s nest on
your tail and no mistake. Anyone’d think you was a classic race
meeting.”

“How did they find me here?” said Campion.

Lugg shrugged his shoulders. “Ask me another. The police followed young
Amanda, I should say, and the other little syndicate of blossoms must
have a tip-off in the police somewhere. I merely strolled down after you
to satisfy myself that everything was okay and I walked right into it.
The police don’t know me ’ere, so I came in through the lounge, ’ad a
drink in the saloon, and nipped up the first staircase I could find as
soon as I ’ad a chance. I’ve been all over the ’ouse. There’s no one
upstairs at the moment. I tell you what, there’s a cat-walk over the
roofs if you want it, but I’d think twice before I took it with your
’ead.”

Campion shot a glance at Amanda and turned the flat of his hand to Lugg.
It was an entirely spontaneous gesture but miraculously the man seemed
to understand in time.

“’E’s ’ad a ’eadache,” he said to the girl. “Still, it’s up to ’im.”

Amanda turned to Campion. “What are you going to do?”

She was as natural and polite as if Lugg had interrupted nothing more
important than a tea-party. Her poise was imperturbable and he knew that
she must always have possessed it.

“I must see Bull,” he said. “You’ll go back to Bridge, won’t you? Lugg
can wait at the paper shop. I’ll try the roof. I must get on. It’s so
urgent, you see. If fifteen isn’t a date the whole thing may cook up at
absolutely any moment. I’ve got to stop it. Whatever it is I’ve got to
stop it.”

He saw that he was speaking with unusual violence, for they both looked
at him under their eyelashes and there was an awkward pause when he
finished.

“You’d better try it at once, then,” said Lugg practically. “We don’t
want the busies coming up ’ere, do we?”

“Very well.” Campion had no idea what he proposed to attempt nor if he
could make any serious physical effort without collapsing. It was
obviously the next move, that was all.

His programme was unfolding before him like sealed orders and there was
only the passionate anxiety raging behind the dark curtain in his mind
to drive him on to follow it.

Lugg went over to the inner door and opened it.

“You wait a second while I make sure the coast’s still clear,” he said
over his shoulder.

Campion nodded and glanced at Amanda. She was looking at him and as he
caught her eye she smiled with sudden frank generosity, her eyes
dancing.

“The best of luck,” she said. “You’ll do it. How’s the head?”

“Fine.”

“Honest? Oh well then, that’s all right. I’d back you to get to hell and
home again. ‘_Begone! she stormed, Across the raging tide._’”

It was part of a couplet, of course, and he saw by her expression that
she expected him to supply the missing line. It was doubtless some old
joke they had shared since her childhood, something he knew so well that
it should have come to his tongue without thinking. His mind remained
obstinately blank. He could not remember ever having heard the
melodramatic doggerel before. Amanda was waiting confidently, all her
glorious natural friendliness ready to go back to him. He could snub and
hurt her, or explain.

At that moment he saw his choice as clearly as if it had been presented
to him in pictorial form, like one of the old morality pictures of the
primrose path flanked with gin palaces on one side and the steep track
amid the chasms on the other. It would be so easy to explain and so
pleasant. Lugg was there to back him up and she was eager, too,
forgiveness and intelligent understanding in every inch of her young
body. Aubrey could be kicked out of her life as easily as if he’d been a
hedgehog in the road. She would be so sorry, so abominably dutifully
sorry . . .

He laughed. “I’ve forgotten my cue. I’ll always be able to get in touch
with you at Bridge, shan’t I?” he said.

The last thing he saw of her was the smile fading out of her eyes.


                                   XV

“There you are. It’s a straight drop to begin with and then you ’ave to
start the fancywork. Can you see anything at all?”

Lugg’s whisper came gustily to Campion across the narrow corridor at the
top of the old inn. The dark cul-de-sac in which they stood, bowing
their heads to avoid the low ceiling, was warm and breathless and
possessed a faint smell of dust and old wallpaper. Outside the narrow
casement window the night was practically black, but the wet tiles
showed occasional high lights under the faraway stars.

“I don’t like you going off like this in the state your ’ead’s in,” the
fat man whispered, “but I don’t see what else you can do, do you?
Besides, you can climb like a perishing cat, can’t you?”

Campion sincerely hoped so, otherwise the project seemed suicidal.

Lugg touched his arm. “I’ve brought this along,” he said, thrusting a
package into his hand. “It’s some of that money out of the drawer. It
never hurts to have plenty of cash on one. Then there’s this little
torch. It doesn’t give no more light than a pin-’ead. Shade it with your
’and and nobody won’t see it. Now listen, when you get to the ground
make for the main road and turn down the hill. When you get to the
bottom you’ll see an archway on your right. There’s a sort of alley
through there. Take it and go up the steps at the end and there’s the
station right in front of you. You may ’ave to wait about a bit for a
London train, but there’s bound to be one for the mail even in these
times. I’ll sit tight until I ’ear from you.”

He broke off abruptly. Someone was moving very close to them. Heavy
footsteps rang out blithely on old boards and someone’s sleeve brushed
against panelling which might have been directly behind them. Lugg
opened the window.

“Out yer get,” he whispered. “These old places either ’ave walls eight
feet thick or a thin slice of canvas between two sheets of wallpaper.
Button that old raincoat round yer neck. Pity you left the cap but it
can’t be ’elped. Ready?”

Campion slipped through the narrow aperture and hung dangerously over
the pit below.

To his relief, his muscles obeyed him miraculously. He was aware of them
like a great webbing basket enclosing his bones. The discovery gave him
first an enormous sense of relief and then of excitement. Ever since he
had left Amanda alone with the unanswerable line in her lips a
recklessness quite different from anything he ever remembered
experiencing before had taken possession of him. He felt so bitterly
free, and so much alone, that the night itself seemed to have taken on a
new quality. The darkness had become an element, like water on air,
treacherous but stimulating. The soft moist wind on his skin was
invigorating and his dizziness had gone, leaving him super-sensitive, as
though every nerve in his body had become exposed.

Lugg’s white face loomed close above him.

“Don’t forget,” he whispered. “Police in the front and the gentry all
round the back. Good luck.”

Campion dropped. He landed very lightly on his toes and finger-tips.
Good lord, he could climb like a cat! His own skill astounded him, but
he thrust the astonishment away from him in panic lest it should destroy
this instinctive efficiency.

The little torch proved invaluable. It shed only a pin-point of light,
too small to be detected immediately from the street below.

He edged his way carefully up the sloping pantiles, paused a second
astride a gable, and then slid down noiselessly the other side. He went
most cautiously, allowing himself to lie full length against the sharp
slope and feeling his way with his feet.

He was hanging there, supporting himself with remarkably little effort,
when he heard the voices. There were two of them, male, and apparently
directly beneath him. He lay motionless, pressing himself into the
protecting blackness of the tiles.

The two men were keeping very quiet themselves. No words were
distinguishable but the murmur was furtive and secret. Presently one of
them spat and, at a whisper from the other, laughed aloud. He cut it off
short immediately, but the sound had not been attractive. Campion was
not sure that he recognized it but he had a warning instinct that he
ought to do so. He gathered that he must be at the back of the building,
probably looking down on some sort of semi-enclosed yard.

He hung there for a considerable time, the strain on his arms growing
slowly intolerable.

The two men stirred at last and he heard their light footsteps moving
away in the darkness. He saw the glow of a cigarette slowly disappearing
into the gloom. Once it paused and they seemed to be settling. Campion
felt he must lose his grip and come hurtling down on to the cobbles, but
the moment passed, the men went on, and soon all was quiet.

Finally Campion let himself down into the guttering and edged along it
perilously until he came to a gable and had to climb again. This time he
was more lucky. On the other side of the mountain of tiles he came down
quietly on to a perfectly good flat roof. It belonged to an old
coach-house, reconditioned as a garage perhaps, and it was set back a
few feet from a narrow side road. His eyes were becoming more and more
accustomed to the darkness, and here, with a comparatively wide expanse
of sky above him, he could almost see.

There was no traffic in the road below him, but farther away to the
right he could hear an occasional car engine revving as its driver
changed gear. That must be the high road and the hill that Lugg had
spoken of, of course.

He came quietly across the leads and paused with his hands on the low
parapet. Beneath him was pitch darkness, but he could just see a gleam
of wet pavement on the far side of the narrow road opposite. There was
no movement, no sound, not a step on the stones.

He leant over the concrete ledge and flashed his torch. The little beam
was so small that it shed scarcely any glow.

He flicked it off at once. He had seen what he wanted to. Garage, or
coach-house, or whatever it was, the roof-high doors were ajar.

Lying on his stomach, with his thighs hooked over the parapet, he leant
down and pulled one door wider. It was unexpectedly well hung and moved
so easily that he almost overbalanced. He let it swing right back until
it rested across the angle made by the building on which he lay and the
blank wall of the next house. He waited.

There was not a breath from within, not a whisper, not a rustle.

Far away in the direction of the High Street a girl laughed foolishly as
though someone had tickled her and afterwards shouted something which he
could not catch, but here, close to him in the narrow alley, there was
nothing, only silence and the soft damp kisses of the rainy wind.

He climbed on to the door and began to descend deftly by way of the old
harness pegs. He made no sound at all and when his foot touched the
paving stone it was very gentle, as if he had been coming down carpeted
stairs.

He had just straightened himself when the door moved. It was swung back
forcefully as the man who had been standing hidden behind it saw his
opportunity and leapt for it. Campion sidestepped him with an
instinctive swiftness nothing to do with his conscious thoughts. It was
instinct, too, which made him thrust his foot out at the same moment
that he struck blindly in the dark. He touched cloth and a hard shoulder
beneath it, but the man went down over the outstretched foot and as he
fell his cosh rattled in the gutter. Campion ran and again he
experienced a shock of delight in his own freedom of movement. All the
unsteadiness of earlier in the day had vanished under the tremendous
pressure of this new excitement. His illness had given place to a period
of complete irresponsibility, coupled, of course, with the _idée fixe_
which had never left him. Physically, he was in perfect training. He
moved like a whippet, easily, gracefully, and so lightly that his feet
scarcely sounded upon the tarmac.

The High Street was dark and empty but as he turned down the hill the
row started behind him. Shouts and heavy footsteps echoed from the
side-streets, and these were answered by others outside the front of the
hotel. He put on more speed so that the falling ground sped from under
him.

Someone behind blew a police whistle. He ducked through the archway,
just in time. It opened at his side like a huge mouth and he slid into
it. The street was waking up behind him. He could hear cries and shouted
enquiries and over his shoulder caught a glimpse of torches.

The lighting restrictions were on his side. His uncanny gift for finding
his way in the dark, and above all his tremendous speed, were going to
save him if he was lucky. He kept to the wall, found the stone steps,
and emerged to find himself just across the road from a railway station.
It was the only building in the town not quite in complete darkness and
he found the entrance without difficulty. With remarkable presence of
mind he took off his torn and dirty mackintosh and folded it over his
arm as he walked in. He could hear a train panting in the station, but
his ears were still strained to catch any ominous sound behind him. They
would find him, of course. It was such an obvious place to come. The
police, who never make the mistake of neglecting the obvious, would
certainly look for him here, if the others didn’t.

The booking clerk put every other consideration out of his head,
however.

“Last train just going,” he said, slamming down the ticket and the
change on the brass ledge.

Campion snatched it and fled. The collector at the top of the stairs did
not wait to clip his ticket.

“Express right through. There she goes. There she goes,” he shouted
obligingly as he dragged the other man through the gates. “Might just do
it. Run, sir.”

The train, a great dark centipede with dead eyes, was already chugging
away from the platform, gathering speed at every gasping breath. Campion
sprinted after it and just managed to swing himself on to the footboard
of the last coach.

Ignoring the warning shouts behind him, he got the door of the final
compartment open, and, as stale leather-scented air gushed out to meet
him, he clambered into a first-class smoker. He had just slammed the
door behind him, congratulating himself that there was no corridor, and
had flung himself into a corner under one of the small blue reading
lights with relief in his heart, when the train stopped with a jerk.

They had caught him. That was his first thought. The police had followed
him and stopped the train. He was trapped, caught as surely as if hands
were already on his shoulder. He wondered if they would come up the line
for him. If so, perhaps he had a chance if the farther door of the
compartment was not locked. It was, of course. At the other window he
made the unnerving discovery that the coach was still partly at the long
platform. Moreover, there was no time to do anything. Flying feet and
raised voices were bearing down upon him. He struggled with the door. At
least he could make a dash for it. The darkness was on his side. Nothing
else seemed to be helpful, however. The catch stuck and he was a moment
wrenching it.

That delay defeated him. As the heavy door swung open a hurrying figure
hurled itself in on top of him and as he caught a glimpse of it his arm,
which had been upraised, dropped to his side.

“That’s all right, that’s all right. I’m quite all right. Very much
obliged to you. Good night.”

The newcomer spoke over his shoulder to someone in the darkness.

“Good night, sir. No trouble at all. Good night,” an official voice
answered deferentially and the guard’s whistle sounded down the
platform.

The train started with a jerk which unsteadied both men and Campion
retired to his corner. It was another belated traveller; that was all.
He was making a fool of himself. There was nothing to fear yet. He was
still free. He leant back in his seat and closed his eyes. His body was
chilled and clammy and he could feel his heart jolting painfully in his
side.

The other man had settled himself diagonally opposite and was blowing
gently in the semi-darkness. He was small and elderly and seemed taken
up with his own near shave.

Campion dismissed him from his mind. There was plenty to think about.
There had been no gun-play. That meant that somebody in charge of the
crook element had issued very strict orders. In England gun-play
invariably entails intensive police interest. It works like a charm. One
shot produces forty policemen, endless enquiries, house-to-house visits,
and more fuss than a football crowd can ever make over a foul. Someone
was determined to get peace and quiet for his activities. Weaver, B.’s
munificent offer proved that much, of course, but it was worth noticing.

Campion dug himself farther into the soft, old-fashioned upholstery and
considered his chances. The train was an express. That should mean that
he was safe until he got to a London terminus. There, of course, the
Metropolitan Police would probably be waiting for him if the County
Inspector knew his stuff, which seemed highly probable. Well, that could
wait. He’d cross that bridge when he came to it. Meanwhile, here at last
was a breather, time to think if his mind would work.

With the grim determination of necessity he settled down to make it
function. Very carefully he reviewed all the concrete evidence which the
last thirty hours had produced. All of it was unexpected and most of it
apparently entirely unrelated. Behind it all was this desperate urgency,
this passionate instinct for haste. If only he knew the essentials. He
was trying to fit together a jigsaw puzzle without knowing what sort of
picture the pieces were expected to make. A few of them married, though.
Pyne and his Surveys Limited. The professional crooks and the method of
Anscombe’s murder. These three shapes made a corner, anyway.

Then there had been Miss Anscombe’s painfully vivid picture of her
brother’s last few weeks of life. She had been so clear with her story
of the alien, the suspected smuggling under the Nag, and the suggestion
that Anscombe had made up his mind to atone in some way.

That picture should fit in somewhere, although at the moment he had no
idea where.

Then there were the Masters themselves, the fleet of lorries, Anscombe’s
sudden decision to draw all his money in cash. Then there was the cash
which Campion had brought in to Lugg, the other cash which Weaver, B.,
had offered, the parcel of cash which Anscombe had forgotten to bring in
from the car. Fifteen. Minute Fifteen. The fact that it wasn’t a date.

His head reeled and he bent forward and rested his forehead in his hands
and his elbows on his knees. The train’s wheels grumbled and vibrated
soothingly beneath him. It was a pause at any rate, a moment of peace
and security in a breathless race through nightmare streets with police
and crook alike his pursuers. He felt almost calm, almost at ease.

The other man in the compartment stirred. Campion could just see him in
the blue mist which hung over the carriage like dusty limelight. As the
younger man raised his head the stranger spoke, revealing a deep elderly
voice, faintly suspicious as such voices often are.

“I’ve seen your face before,” he said accusingly. “Where was that?
Aren’t you Albert Campion?”


                                  XVI

Campion froze. Good God! Was the whole world after him? _Of course it
was._ The recollection came like a scalding shower, shocking him back to
reality. Of course it was. Hadn’t he killed one policeman and assaulted
another? Wasn’t the whole countryside being scoured for him? He drew
back in the shadows.

“No,” he said huskily. “No. That’s not my name. I don’t think we’ve
met.”

“Oh? No? Perhaps not. Perhaps not.” The voice sounded partially
satisfied but its owner did not relax. Through the blue mist from the
reading lamp Campion took careful stock of this new potential enemy. He
was a neat little man, a character. His dark coat was sleek and
unobtrusively expensive, but his hat was too large for him and his white
hair was untidy beneath it. At the moment he was staring at Campion
unwinkingly with unexpectedly shrewd eyes.

He had a small attaché case by his side and a walking-stick across his
knees. He looked very English, very narrow and conventional.

It was quite possible that they had met, of course, in the far-off lucid
days thirty-six hours ago. Campion began to feel for a name which he
might give if asked point-blank. He saw the danger of that just in time,
fortunately. Suppose if out of the dark presses of his mind he fished up
some famous name. The only one to occur to him at that moment was Dick
Turpin. He had a strong feeling there was something against it, yet it
had a vaguely attractive sound.

Fortunately the question did not come but neither did the stare waver.
It remained transfixing him, paralysingly steady and confident, for what
seemed the best part of an hour. He moved uneasily under it, leaning
back in the leathery darkness to escape it, but it did not falter. It
had almost demoralized him before he realized that the man was not
seeing him but was looking through him into some introspective unknown.

This discovery was a relief, but all the same it was not easy to think
of anything else with those intelligent eyes glittering straight at one
in the blue gloom. In the end he was forced to speak in sheer
self-defence. He was so anxious to be entirely natural and he tried out
many openings in his mind and finally succeeded in being gauche.

“Worried?” he enquired baldly, adding at once, as the glitter faded and
astonishment took its place, “I mean, the—er—times are very
disturbing, aren’t they?”

The other man sat up. He was considerably flustered by the complete lack
of ceremony. Campion could have kicked himself. Poor old boy. He was
just a successful provincial business man chewing over the troubles of
the day. There was nothing sinister about him, nothing to be frightened
of. Surely his history as well as his character was written in his face.
He looked tired, overworked, weighed down by the responsibilities of his
job as the head of some firm or other. He was probably meticulously
straight in his dealings, astute, too, in a narrow way, wealthy, and yet
beset by problems. In fact, the great British public itself incarnate.

“Yes,” he said at last, having decided to forgive the intrusion. “Not
too easy, are they? I think we must face it that they’re dangerous,
damned dangerous.”

It was odd how he managed to convey such consternation by saying so
little. Campion wondered if his business had been badly hit. He saw it
as something to do with wool. A fine old firm, probably generations old.

His own mind was running feverishly on the subject. He wanted the man to
talk, to babble on reassuringly about ordinary things; anything, the
war, the weather, sport, A.R.P., anything to keep him as he was now, a
normal comprehensible fellow human-being and not a pair of fixed
introspective eyes in the shadows.

“What worries you most?” Campion demanded, knowing the question was
infantile but panic-stricken lest he should escape again.

The old man blinked at him. “Treachery,” he said.

Campion wondered if he had heard the word. It was so unexpected, so
melodramatic. The stranger was looking at him again, too, and the blue
light shone in his eyes.

“You find it in your business?” Campion enquired.

“I do.” The admission seemed to be wrenched out of the man. “I do, after
fifty years. Treachery on a vast scale everywhere I look. Sometimes I
wonder if my own eyes are deceiving me, but no, it’s there and it’s got
to be faced.”

He was silent and Campion took a liking to him. He looked such a dogged
old chap, sitting there with his square hands gripping the stick across
his knees.

There was a long pause and then the shrewd eyes rested on the younger
man again.

“I could have sworn you were Albert Campion,” he said. “It must be
because I’ve been hearing about him tonight.”

It came back. All Campion’s apprehension of the past few hours returned
with interest. He held himself together with an effort and forced his
mind to go slow. It was too dangerous to ask questions. The old boy was
too sharp. Besides, he had recognized him. The old fellow was not
certain, of course. That was the one saving grace. The only hope was to
take his mind off the subject and to talk of something else.

Campion searched wildly for a likely opening. What would interest a wool
merchant, if the wretched man _was_ in wool? Sheep, perhaps? No, that
was absurd. He was losing his grip on reality altogether. This was
madness. Oh God, what was he going to say next?

The old man leant back in his seat and crossed his short legs.

“We’ve always fought our wars with money,” he remarked. “I wonder if
it’s going to save us now?”

Money! Of course. Campion could have laughed aloud. Why hadn’t he
thought of it before? Everybody was interested in money. It was a
universal subject.

“I don’t know,” he said cautiously, choosing the safest lead. “It’s not
to be confused with wealth, of course.”

“No,” said the old man briefly, “no, it’s not, but as it stands now, in
its present position, it’s a very important factor all the same.”

He went on to talk fluently on the aspect of the struggle which
evidently interested him. He appeared to be quite sound, but Campion
made no attempt to follow him. He heard the voice and that was enough.
He was soothed and cured and it gave him a moment to think. Soon the
train would come into the station. That was going to be a difficult
moment. Detectives were almost certain to be there to meet it. They
could hardly miss him, although they would be looking for a man alone
and might with reasonable luck have only a telephoned description of
him. If only there had been time he would have let them take him and
have risked the enquiry. They could hardly hang him for murder in his
present condition and almost anything would be preferable to this
continuous hounding down. However, that was out of the question. He had
a job to do and he must do it, at whatever cost.

Amanda came up in his mind and he thrust her out of it savagely.

“The unspeakable peril of forced inflation,” droned the voice on the
other side of the compartment. “The loss of faith in the country’s
essential soundness.”

Campion smiled at the man and nodded to him without hearing. How
comfortingly ordinary he was. What a blessed piece of solid and familiar
ground in this new world of quicksands and blackouts. The intelligent
thing to do was to stick to him, of course. It would be dangerous in a
way, but at least it would ensure that he did not go trotting off to
confide his suspicions to the first bobby he saw on the station.

Campion glanced at the man, to see that he had just finished speaking
and now rose to his feet purposefully.

What was this? Campion grew cold. Was he going to turn out to be an
elderly Chief Inspector after all? Was it a last-minute arrest? Campion
seemed to remember having heard of something of the sort long ago. His
face must have given him away because the old man was looking at him
curiously.

“We’re just coming in,” he said. “Can’t you feel us slowing down?”

“Of course.” One crisis was over but another had arrived. “Of course,”
Campion repeated. “I hadn’t noticed. I was so interested.”

“Really? That’s very gratifying.” The old man was opening the carriage
door and he was laughing a little. “I’m glad to hear that. Ah, thank
you.” The final remark was addressed to someone outside on the platform.
“What’s that?”

There was a muttering which Campion could not catch and then his
travelling companion glanced over his shoulder.

“I’m afraid there’s some trouble,” he remarked. “The police are looking
for someone on the train.”

“Oh?” Now that it had come Campion was himself again. His thin face
became wooden and his voice entirely natural. “What do they want us to
do?”

Once again there was a murmur from the official in the darkness. The old
man nodded briefly.

“Quite,” he said. “Very sensible. They’ve shut off the main platform,”
he continued, turning to Campion. “This last coach is just outside the
barrier. The fellow here suggests he takes our tickets for us and we go
across the footway to the road. You’ll want a cab, won’t you?”

“Yes, please.”

“Right. Well then, this is where we part. Good morning to you. I enjoyed
our chat. I’m afraid it was all about nothing.”

“Good morning, sir,” said Campion and followed him into the grey
darkness.

It was incredible. He had no time to realize his escape. It was like one
of those wild rides in a switchback in a fun-fair. A blank wall looms up
in front of the car. Nearer it comes, nearer and nearer, and then when
the crash is imminent, when the impact and noise of it is almost a
reality, the track swings away, the car swerves sickeningly, the corner
is turned, and the delirious journey continues.

He stumbled across the platform, which was littered with goods trolleys,
milk churns, and mailbags. On his right, beyond the police-lined
barrier, there was all the usual confusion of arrival. The detectives
were waiting farther on at the ticket gate, no doubt. Meanwhile his own
getaway was made absurdly easy. No one took the least notice of him. The
railway official led the old man and Campion followed the pair of them.
That was all there was to it.

He thought he saw exactly what must have happened. His travelling
companion was obviously a constant passenger on this particular train.
Probably he had used it every day for the past ten years or more.
Railway servants get to know a man like that and if he is a good tipper
will go to endless trouble on his behalf. He must have been in the habit
of using the final coach and doubtless this was his regular porter who
was waiting to meet him.

They came out at last on to a narrow road on the goods side of the
station. The old man’s car was waiting for him and he nodded to Campion
as he climbed into it. A taxi crawled forward out of the darkness.

“Where to, sir?”

“The Treasury,” said Campion briefly and climbed inside.

The cab moved forward at once. There was no questioning, no delay, no
pause at the station gates. He could hardly believe it. He had got away
as neatly and smoothly as if he had been a ghost. It was an invigorating
experience and he began to feel absurdly pleased with himself. The gods
were on his side. He glanced out of the window and saw the chill grey
outline of shabby old buildings, piled sandbags, and painted road-signs.
The streets were practically deserted.

A sudden thought occurred to him and he rapped on the window. The taxi
drew into the curb and the driver turned to peer through the glass
screen.

“Yes, sir?”

“What time is it?”

“Just on a quarter before five, sir.”

“In the morning?”

“Lumme! I ’ope so. Otherwise I’ve been drivin’ back through Einstein
ever since the pubs shut last night.”

Campion ignored the pleasantry. He was thinking. Even if he was half-way
down the straight to Colney Hatch he yet had enough sense to realize
that no Cabinet Minister is liable to be available at his office before
five in the morning.

“You’d better take me to a hotel,” he said.

The driver, who was in a ferocious mood, shrugged his shoulders
elaborately.

“Just as you say, sir. Got any particular place in mind?”

“No. Anywhere will do as long as it’s open. I want to shave and get some
breakfast.”

The cabby beamed. He was an elderly cockney, with the bright little eyes
and thin rodent’s face of his race.

“Well,” he said, “since you’re not paying your income-tax for the
moment, I see, what about the Ritz?”

“I’ve got no luggage.”

“’Strewth!” said the driver. “I’d better take you ’ome and give you a
nice brush-up myself. Sorry, sir, it’s the morning air on an empty
stomach. What about this place ’ere? You’re outside it; that’s in its
favor.”

Campion looked at the gloomy façade across the pavement. A porter in
shirt-sleeves was sweeping down the steps and at that moment a policeman
sauntered over to speak to him.

“No.” Campion did not mean to sound so vehement. “Somewhere more—more
central.”

“Right you are, sir.” The cockney was looking at him very curiously. “It
would help me if you’d give me an idea. Can’t you think of anywhere
you’d like to go, sir?”

“The Cecil would do.” It was the first name to come into his mind and it
was unfortunate.

“You’re not by any chance Rip Van Winkle junior, are you, sir? The
Cecil’s been pulled down some little time now. Must be close on twenty
years.”

“Oh well, take me anywhere. Anywhere where there’s a lot of people.”

The policeman had given up chatting to the janitor and was looking their
way. The driver cocked an eye at his fare and an indescribably cunning
expression flickered over his face.

“You want a nice railway-station hotel, that’s what you want,” he said.
“Leave it to me.”

He drove off at a great rate and finally deposited Campion at a great
terminus in Wyld Street, behind Charing Cross.

“You’ll be safe and comfy ’ere,” he said as he undressed himself to get
change for a pound note. “Cosmopolitan that’s what it is. Lost in a
crowd, that’s what you’ll be.” And he winked as he took the tip.

There was no mistaking his suggestion. As Campion saw him drive off his
old panic returned. He had given himself away by flunking the first
policeman. Of course he had! These damned Londoners were too smart. They
saw too much. Their experience of human nature was boundless. Probably
even now the fellow was scuttling away to the nearest police station to
take a list of wanted persons. That ruled his hotel out and he’d have to
go somewhere else.

Better not pick up another cab here, either.

He walked away and crossed Trafalgar Square, cutting down behind the
National Gallery into the narrow streets beyond. The light was growing
rapidly and the great friendly shabby old city was beginning to sit up
and stretch itself like a tramp who has been asleep on a park bench.

He found a big tea-shop, finally, and went inside and bought himself
some breakfast. The food restored him considerably. He was surprised to
find how much he needed it and how much more intelligent he became after
eating it. He began to see some things with painful clarity. If he was
to get any help from Sir Henry Bull he must get it at once before any
news from Bridge reached that distinguished gentleman. That was evident.
The thing to do was to get hold of him at once, at his private house. If
he turned out to be as worried as Oates had been then he should have the
full story and the personal consequences could not be helped. The one
vital consideration at the moment was to reach someone in real authority
before the police held everything up by arresting him and letting the
law take its majestic course.

There was a directory in the telephone booth at the entrance but the
name was not in it, which was not extraordinary since public men do not
often advertise their private numbers. Campion began to feel his
disadvantage again. London confused him. The city had the same effect on
him as Amanda had in the beginning. He knew that he knew it very well
indeed. It smiled at him and comforted him. But its face was just
outside his present powers of memory. Whole streets were gloriously
familiar but they had no names for him and no definite associations. His
only way of getting about was by taxi. The drivers knew the way if he
did not.

It was confusing and it took a lot of time, but in the end he got what
he wanted. He accepted his disability and set about circumnavigating it
with a dogged patience which was characteristic of him. One cab took him
to the nearest public library, where he consulted a battered _Who’s
Who_. The man was there all right. _BULL, the Rt Hon. Henry Pattison, Kt
created 1911, M.P. Honorary Member of the Universities of Oxford, St
Andrews’, Leeds. Senior Master of Bridge._

Senior Master of Bridge. The words stared out of the tiny print at him,
enlarging themselves before his eyes. What a fool! What a trebly
mentally defective cretin! Of course. Miss Anscombe had told him that he
already knew that the Masters were holding their meeting on the
fourteenth. The man must have been there in the very town he himself had
fled from. Probably even now he was tucked up in Mr Peter Lett’s best
bed.

A sense of despair swept over him. He was beset, benighted, hag-ridden
by his own horrible insufficiency. The gods were bouncing him on their
great knees, saving him one minute, only to dash him within an inch of
the abyss the next.

His eye travelled to the end of the paragraph, ignoring the impressive
list of highlights in a useful career. The address was there, 52
Pytchley Square, W. He looked at it dubiously. It seemed scarcely worth
while going there in the circumstances.

He decided to try it finally, because he could think of no alternative.

He reached the Square by taxi, which he dismissed as soon as he caught
sight of the plane trees, continuing the journey on foot. The tall
houses looked strangely virginal and unprotected without their iron
trimmings. He could not understand what was missing at first, but when
it came to him and he realized the reason for this nudity all the old
fighting anger returned to his heart, coupled with the now familiar
sense of impending disaster and the urge for haste. London’s railings,
her secret private little defences, were torn away to feed the big guns.

But what was this other danger which threatened her? What was this swift
peril which drew so close and which he was floundering so desperately to
defeat?

He saw the house across the corner. Very neat it was, and sober, with a
polished number on the plum-coloured door and demure net curtains in the
windows.

He was bearing down upon it when he saw the two men. One of them rose
from the edge of the sandbin where he had been sitting under a tree in
the square and sauntered forward.

Police. Of course. All these public men’s houses had police guards these
days. Why should he have forgotten that?

He wondered if his description had already been circularized to every
plain-clothes man in the country. He wished he were less conspicuous and
less shabby from his roof climbing. The man was coming directly towards
him. He was going to be stopped and questioned. He could see the
fellow’s face now clearly and he was grinning sheepishly, blast him. It
was a “fair cop,” was it? What should he do? Run for it and have all
London at his heels?

It was the little mock salute which stopped him, that and the man’s
obvious embarrassment.

“Sergeant Cook, sir,” said the stranger, his smile twisting wryly.
“You’ve forgotten me, I expect. Any news of the Guv’nor, sir?”

The sincerity of his anxiety outweighed everything else. It had a force
of its own which was sufficient to kindle an answering spark from
Campion’s imprisoned mind.

“Oates?” he enquired. “No, I haven’t seen him.”

The man shrugged his shoulders expressively. “I don’t like it,” he said.
“I don’t like it at all.”

They stood there for a moment in silence and Campion glanced up at
number 52.

“I want to see Sir Henry Bull,” he said slowly, hardly trusting his
voice. “Can you fix it?”

Sergeant Cook gave him an astonished glance and Campion saw that he had
made a mistake. Obviously his right move would have been to have walked
up to the front door and given his name in the ordinary way. He set
about covering his tracks.

“I want a word or two with him in private. I don’t have to explain, do
I?” he said.

He sounded pretty mysterious to himself but to his relief the Sergeant
responded, although he glanced at him sharply under his lashes.

“I get you, sir. There’s a side door on the left of the area there. It
leads through to the yard at the back. Will you wait in that passage?”

Campion followed him and entered the side gate. He was waiting in the
little alley inside when at last the man reappeared. He came creeping in
through the high latticed gate from the yard and beckoned.

“Okay,” he said with some satisfaction. “Come round this way, will you,
sir? Been tailed, sir?”

“I rather think so. Thank you. I—er—I shan’t forget this, Sergeant.”

“That’s all right, sir. This way.”

They passed through a warm little servants’ hall, where a couple of
maids eyed them inquisitively, ascended a back staircase, crossed a
flagged inner hall, and finally reached a white-panelled door.

“He’s having a late breakfast,” whispered the Sergeant, “but he’s alone.
Lady Bull has just left him.”

He knocked and listened.

“There you are, sir,” he added and opened the door.

Campion went into a small bright room which glowed with flowers and
smelt pleasantly of coffee. A breakfast table was set in the window and
a man in a dressing-gown sat at it with his back to the door. He turned
at the sound of the latch and smiled affably at his visitor.

“Hallo, my boy,” he said. “I half expected you.”

Campion said nothing. The world was reeling dangerously and he felt his
scalp contract.

It was the old man he had met in the train coming up.


                                  XVII

The eyes which had glittered so disconcertingly in the blue
reading-light in the train were equally shrewd and uncomfortably
penetrating at the breakfast table. Campion looked at them helplessly.
This was disaster. This was defeat.

He was taken so completely off his balance that he could not trust
himself to speak. His lean tight-skinned face was expressionless.

The old man indicated a chair on the other side of the table.

“Sit down,” he said. “Have some coffee. Don’t look at me like that. I
know I’ve been very obtuse.”

Campion blinked. He began to feel impervious to surprise. He sat down
obediently but did not dare to open his mouth.

Sir Henry Bull cleared his throat. He looked very uncomfortable.

“You’ve had a most nerve-racking experience, I don’t doubt,” he said.
“Until we got into the terminus this morning I had no inkling of the
extraordinary situation. You’ll have to forgive me, my boy. You can’t
teach an old dog new tricks and I admit quite freely that I find it very
difficult to get used to this—this transpontine world we suddenly seem
to be living in.”

He was quite incomprehensible to Campion, who gave up trying to save
himself. His astonishment showed in his face. Sir Henry misunderstood it
and laughed briefly in his embarrassment.

“Even the word belongs to another era,” he said bitterly.
“‘Transpontine.’ Over the bridge. Over Waterloo Bridge to the Vic and
the Surrey, the homes of melodrama. Blood tubs, we used to call them.
That’s the world we’re living in today. I can’t get into tune with it as
fast as perhaps I ought. Enemy soldiers disguised as nuns, carrying
machine-guns and portable bicycles, descending by parachute. Armed
secret societies. Microphones in the wall of railway carriages—it’s all
boy’s halfpenny paper stuff to me still. I can’t force my mind to be on
guard for its numberless ingenuities. I did no actual harm, I hope. The
police got their man, no doubt.”

Campion snatched at his scattering wits and faced the situation.
“Microphones in the walls of railway carriages”? Was it possible that
the old boy actually thought . . . ? He did obviously. Having once
convinced himself that the world had gone mad, he was evidently prepared
to see lunacy everywhere.

The question remained unanswered and the man repeated it.

“Did they take the fellow?”

“No,” said Campion. “No. Not that it matters.”

“You don’t think so? I’m very relieved to hear you say that.” Sir Henry
had turned in his chair. He looked an old man, very tired and very
anxious. “I’ve been going over everything that passed and I realize I
said nothing of value. Fortunately my training prevented me from being
actually indiscreet. But I do realize I must have put you in a very
awkward position. You see, when they stopped the train for me at
Coachingford and I found you in my reserved carriage I immediately
thought that you wanted a word with me in private. It never went through
my head that you were there to look after me and that we might be
overheard or overlooked. To be frank, I didn’t understand your manner in
the least, although it ought to have warned me. Then, when we arrived
and the station people told me that the train was being searched, I saw
the whole thing in a flash. This Fifth Column activity is incredible.
They didn’t get him, you say?”

“Not yet.”

“They will.” Sir Henry spoke with satisfaction. “They’re wonderful
people. They’re probably on his track at this moment.”

“More than probably,” said Campion absently. He could hardly assimilate
the facts even now when they were presented to him on a plate, but he
forced himself to accept them without question. There was so much to do
and so little time.

Meanwhile, Sir Henry was so unused to making mistakes that he was still
offering explanations in his own defence.

“I usually stay the night after a meeting of the Masters,” he said, “but
it was imperative that I got back early today, so Peter Lett phoned the
station-master and reserved me a carriage. Then we were held up on the
road and I walked on to the platform to see the train starting. They
held it for me but there was no time for explanations. I had no notion
you were in the compartment until I saw you. I recognized you at once,
of course, and then as I say I did not grasp the significance of the
situation. I had been hearing from my fellow Masters that you were in
the town and I simply thought you wanted a word with me. You see exactly
how it happened, don’t you?”

“I do,” said Campion. “Exactly,” he added after a pause. Obviously the
Masters had not heard of the assault on Hutch and so far the man in
front of him knew nothing of the St Jude’s Hospital episode. “I do want
to see you,” he went on hurriedly. “I want to talk about Anscombe.”

“Anscombe?” Sir Henry frowned. “Poor fellow,” he said. “I heard about
him as soon as I arrived, of course. What do you want to know?”

“Why did Anscombe die wondering if he ought not to come to you? Why did
he convert every halfpenny he possessed into cash and then debate in his
own mind if he ought not to come and see you?”

“Did he?” Sir Henry was surprised but not bewildered. “He was a silly
fellow. I’ve known him for years of course. He was too small a man
altogether for his commitments. That’s the weakness of these hereditary
appointments. Old Anscombe ought to have been secretary of a cricket
club, or a churchwarden perhaps. I always understood that personal
finances were his difficulty. He ought to have been perfectly all right,
but his father played Old Harry with the Secretaryship. That income was
mortgaged out of hand and the children were left very modestly provided
for. Anscombe himself was even more improvident. Between ourselves, we
financed him over and over again, but finally we had to put a stop to
it. So he converted what little money he had into cash, did he? What was
he going to do? Try to make a dash from his local creditors?”

Campion shook his head. “His sister seems to have had a rather different
idea,” he said. “She suggests that he may have been going to make some
sort of gesture. ‘In expiation’ were the words she used.”

“To me? Really? What for?” Curiously enough, the suggestion did not seem
to strike Sir Henry as entirely fantastic. “I see you don’t understand,”
he said. “The Secretaryship of the Masters isn’t quite the important
office it sounds. The Secretary is the—how shall I say?—well, the
steward of the club and the general clerk of the domestic arrangements.
His office is comparatively modern. His main job is to look after the
premises. It would not astonish me to hear that Anscombe had done
anything. He was a remarkably silly man, one of those theatrical,
hysterical types. What did you discover he had done? Filched a pound or
two from the petty funds?”

“No, I don’t think so. Miss Anscombe wondered if he had allowed the
caverns in the Nag to be used for contraband.”

“Really? I can’t believe that. That would have been sacrilege. No, I
don’t think so. I fancy I know where that story comes from. I did hear
something. What was it? Lett mentioned it. I think a great deal of wine
was actually taken into the Nag some time before the war. It represented
a sum of money which was due to us for the sale of our share of a
Rhenish vineyard. The money could not be taken out of Germany so we
received its equivalent in wine. I don’t know the full facts. Our Bursar
would tell you that. Anscombe would probably be responsible for the
storage of the wine. That was the kind of thing he did attend to. He had
nothing to do with the main function of the Brotherhood.”

“Which is?”

“The welfare of our country, young man.” It was an oddly dignified
answer, completely unaffected.

Once again Campion took a sudden liking to this canny old man with his
dogged stance and the streak of unself-conscious patriotism which showed
in him every so often.

“Our principal business is the Institute,” Sir Henry added more
specifically. “That place is a great national possession.”

“National?”

The older man smiled with a depreciation which was very faint.

“The Masters of Bridge are the nation,” he said, unaware of any naïveté.
“That is, they’re typical of the best of it. Is there anything else?”

“Yes.” It was now or never and the ground was very uncertain. “Tell me
about Minute Fifteen.”

Once the question was out of his mouth the deepest misgivings seized him
as he saw astonishment growing in the intelligent eyes.

“Minute Fifteen?” The man was not at ease. He seemed puzzled and
slightly alarmed. “I don’t know what I can tell you that you don’t know
already,” he said at last. “The whole world will know about it tomorrow,
or I sincerely hope so. As for details of the publicity, I understand
that you were one of the few men who had known about that from the
outset. What do you want from me? The financial details of the actual
loan? The Chancellor of the Exchequer will be explaining them on the
radio tomorrow evening.”

“Why was the loan called Minute Fifteen?” he ventured.

“Ah, I see your difficulty. That _was_ confusing.” Sir Henry seemed
relieved. “It wasn’t. The Defence Loan had its own name, the Fifty
Victory. Minute Fifteen simply covers the plan of its presentation. It
was thought wisest to keep that anonymous since it was an innovation and
secrecy was such an integral part of it, so it simply went under its own
number on the agenda of the Cabinet meeting which approved it. However,
this really isn’t my pigeon at all. I can put you on to someone if you
want details.”

“I don’t.” Campion spoke desperately. “I want to know its exact
importance. I mean,” he added hastily, as a flash of bewilderment
appeared in the older man’s eyes, “in regard to every aspect of the
immediate situation. Has it appreciated or decreased?”

“My dear boy,” there was nothing but grimness in the old face now, “its
success is imperative. I wish I had never used those words before.
They’re stale and inadequate. We must have no hitch whatever in raising
the money. We are edging along such a precipice now that I hardly dare
watch, and I am no coward where money is concerned. Use your common
sense. Would we ever embark on a gigantic and drastic project like this,
which virtually means that we are putting the British Empire on a
company footing, with a personal invitation to every taxpayer to invest
his all in it, if it wasn’t absolutely vital? The forms which are going
out tonight are, practically speaking, prospectuses. There is no other
word for them. We’re walking on the water. It’s only the faith of the
man in the street which is going to hold us from going under.”

Campion sat very still. It was coming. Behind the curtain hanging across
his mind like an arras something of tremendous importance was trying to
shine through. He could feel the emotion belonging to it. It was fear.

“Nothing must go wrong,” he said stupidly.

Sir Henry Bull pushed back his chair. He looked a dynamic figure, his
white hair bristling and his long gown flowing round him.

“I said just now that I am never indiscreet,” he said. “I am not. Both
my training and my natural inclination are against it. But I am not made
of wood. Now look here, Campion, I have heard whispers. Mind you, they
have been little more than whispers, but they have come from most
unexpected quarters and they are so terrible that I dare not even think
of them. One of my informants named you as probably the only man who
knew the full truth of the danger. I am not going to ask you for
information, so you can take that blank expression off your face. I
cannot and will not believe that the incredible story which I have heard
has any reality, but, if it has, Campion, well then . . . the Dark Ages
again, that’s what it will mean.”

There was silence for a moment or so and then the old man leant on the
table and looked full at his visitor.

“I think I can tell you what you’re hesitating to ask,” he said. “It is
true that at this moment Britain depends practically entirely on her
faith in herself and on her own internal stability. If that could be
destroyed suddenly, by a single stroke, there would come confusion,
exhaustion, and finally decay. At this particular point in history
everything hangs on Britain’s faith. Europe is conquered; the New World
is not yet prepared. So, should this thing happen, it means that there
will come once again the Dark Ages which followed Attila, and tomorrow
civilization is a thousand years away. It _could_ happen; that is the
lesson of this generation. World barbarism is still possible. The Beast
is not dead. It has not even slept. All these years it has been lying
there watching with lidless eyes. To a man of my age that is the most
awful discovery that could ever have been made. That is what you wanted
to know, isn’t it?”

The younger man did not speak and his host, with a little twist of the
lips which was alarming because his face was not one used to weakness,
demanded abruptly: “How bad is it?” Campion felt cold. His fingers were
numbed and there was a chill in the small of his back. His determination
to make a clean breast of his own disability, should Sir Henry seem as
alarmed as Oates had been, faded before the question in those anxious
eyes.

It was the same story. Everyone was turning to himself for assurance. He
dared not reveal the dreadful emptiness of his mind. Somehow he must
struggle on, blind and half-witted though he was. There was to be no
outside help. He was quite alone.

“I don’t know,” he said slowly. “I don’t know. These prospectuses, or
whatever they are, for Minute Fifteen; they go out tonight, do they?”

“Yes. I can’t understand why you didn’t realize that. It hasn’t been
possible to keep the thing a complete secret. Quite a number of
important committees, including the Masters of Bridge who are going to
take up large portions of the loan, have had to be prepared for it. I
was talking to the Masters on the subject myself last night. Then the
Post Offices had to be warned that they will be expected to deal with
the enormous traffic, while the local tax authorities have had to put
the thing out. So a tremendous number of people know something about it.
Only taxpayers will be approached, of course, but that’s half the
country. It must not fail, Campion. Nothing must happen to make it fail
or to . . .” He shook his head. “That eventuality won’t bear
considering,” he said.

Campion nodded. He was thinking fast. More corners of the jigsaw were
forming, although the whole picture was still obscure. Meanwhile the
great missing portion was assuming an incredible shape. He wondered how
he could persuade Sir Henry to be more specific. It was not going to be
easy. The old man was very quick and already he had been puzzled several
times by little exhibitions of ignorance.

Campion thought he knew the man. He was a realist, a believer of facts.
A gambler, perhaps, but only in form, and that meant that once he
discovered his visitor’s mental condition he would never take a chance.
Campion saw himself pushed into hospital again and not one word of
anything he had to say believed or even considered until the doctors
pronounced him lucid. The urgency of the situation would not make any
difference to Sir Henry. Campion’s disability would simply go down on
the debit side.

He was interrupted by the arrival of the secretary, who came in with a
word of apology and murmured to Sir Henry for some time in a deferential
flow.

“Really?” The old man was surprised. “Where is he? In the house?”

“In the study, Sir Henry.”

“Oh, I see. Yes, well, I shall have to give him a minute or two. You
might warn him I’m overworked, vital information or not. I’ll come
down.”

As the secretary went out he turned to Campion.

“I’m afraid I must see this fellow,” he said. “He’s a curious product,
part genius, part crank, and one of the most influential men in the
country in his own peculiar way. One moment he’s doing untold service
and the next he’s trying to advance a hare-brained scheme for running
the country. The trouble is one never knows which tack he’s on until
one’s seen him. He’s breathing mystery and disaster, Cuthbertson says.
Don’t go. I haven’t finished with you yet. I shan’t be more than five
minutes.”

He went out. The gentle latch did not quite slip home and the door swung
open an inch or two behind him, so that Campion heard his voice as he
entered the room across the hall.

“Hullo, Aubrey. What’s this ‘awful warning,’ my dear boy?”

Aubrey. Campion’s hand closed over the door knob. Aubrey. Miss Anscombe.
His own attack on Hutch. There was a complete line there. Aubrey had
been going to see Miss Anscombe. She must have given him an account of
her interview with himself and Amanda. Aubrey would be far too superior
to go to the police direct. It would be so like him to attempt to stop
the mischief at the head and to warn his distinguished Governor that a
lunatic was at large.

There was nothing for it but flight again. It was the only way and this
time he’d _got_ to get away with it.

He stepped out into the hall and went straight from the house the way he
had come. The maids eyed him as he passed them silently, but he nodded
to them and walked by with the same odd singleness of purpose which had
been his salvation before.

He came quietly out of a side gate, glanced sharply at the detective on
the opposite side of the road, and, keeping well in so that he should
not be seen from the windows of the house he had left, strode on down
the side of the Square.

He was shaking with suppressed excitement. All the facts he had tumbled
on in the last thirty-six hours were blazingly vivid in his mind. Minute
Fifteen, representing the greatest war loan ever launched, was about to
be presented at a time of trembling national emergency personally and
privately to every taxpayer by post. That was the pivot. That was fact
number one. All round it, gyrating like swing-boats round a tower, were
the others. He went over them in his mind. The cases of wine in the
Masters’ storerooms. The story of a foreign contraband before the war.
The murder of Anscombe just before he “made expiation,” obviously done
by professional thugs probably employed by Pyne. The fleet of lorries
under the Nag. The small army of well-paid crooks gathered together
under Pyne’s Surveys Limited. The activities in the Institute. There was
something there he could not remember. What was it? Something he had
seen with his own eyes and forgotten. The attempt of the Enemy to buy
him off when they thought him a crook like themselves, and their
subsequent decision to kill or capture him when they discovered who he
was.

It was all there in his hand. He held it without knowing what it was. In
his blindness he had discovered his objective. In his miserable
ignorance he could not identify it.

He must get back to Bridge. That was the all-important factor. It must
be now nearly eleven. He had, he suspected, until the provincial post
went at about six in the evening, but he had to get back to Bridge and
to do that he had to get across the City to the terminus.

Still he had a chance. For the first time he felt he had a chance.

He found a taxi and made the station in twenty minutes. Luck was with
him and he discovered a Coachingford train actually waiting on the
platform. He entered it in a state as near jubilation as he ever
remembered. Amanda was the only dark spot on his horizon and he refused
to think of her.

All through the journey he made his plans. It was going to be a near
thing and abominably risky, and to get into the Nag by daylight would
take some doing when every man’s hand was against him. All the same, it
had to be done and he had great faith in himself.

When at last the train carried him into the station at Coachingford he
was already in his mind hurrying up the Nag’s Pykle looking for the
narrow passage by the side of the shop which should have sold love
philtres. He was so engrossed with his project that he did not see the
two plain-clothes men standing behind the ticket collector and did not
realize their intention until their hands fell on his shoulders and he
heard the strangely familiar form of arrest.


                                 XVIII

Campion sat in a cell at the Waterhouse Street Police Station at
Coachingford and prayed. He was a damned fool. He knew that. If only he
had at least gone quietly and had given himself a chance. If only he
hadn’t lost his head in the station booking-office as they were taking
him through. He saw himself now behaving like a lunatic, raving,
expostulating, saying all the wrong things, citing all the wrong names.

That final attempt to make a dash for it just outside the present
building! That had been a mistake, probably the worst of the lot. He was
battered and dishevelled now and in the last condition in the world to
inspire confidence in anyone, even to the extent of getting a message
through to Lugg or Yeo.

They were leaving him here to cool his heels while they made out the
charge. At any moment now they would come for him and take him out of
this cold, disinfected tomb and march him into a big smelly charge-room,
warm with breath and sweat. That was going to be his only chance. God
knew what the charges against him were. As far as he knew, they might
contain practically everything on the calendar. However, that aspect was
trifling. Moreover, it belonged to another world. What was important was
the time. Somehow or other he’d got to get out and get down to Bridge
immediately.

An obvious idea which had occurred to him coming down in the train was
torturing him. Very likely he had not got until the evening. More than
likely the lorries had to spread their loads all over the country and
were even now setting out on their journeys. England was such a little
place. It would take so short a time to fan the poison out all over her
lovely petite body.

He had given up worrying about the mystery. The actual facts of the
Enemy’s attack were still entirely beyond him. Even the identity of the
Enemy himself had escaped him. All he knew were those things which were
set out under his nose; the lorries, the date of the launching of the
Minute Fifteen loan, the work at the Institute, and the wine cases in
the Nag.

He must get out. Oh God, dear God, he must get out!

He was sweating when they came for him. The larger plain-clothes man,
the one whose eye he had closed, was not present. The other one, the
ratty specimen with the little moustache, gave him a wide berth and left
the work to the old turnkey and the enormous young constable who would
not normally have accompanied them.

Campion went quietly, meekly. He was so restrained that he felt they
must notice that he was shaking and see that his hands were clenched to
keep them down. They were all very gentle and so nervy that he guessed
that they suspected him of mania. Very likely. God, what a situation! He
would be in a strait-jacket with ice on his head when the blow fell,
when the Enemy succeeded, when the knife slipped into her little green
heart.

He was deferential to the Charge Sergeant. The man was a fool. He saw
his great square head with the unnaturally grey face on one side of it
nodding over the top of the high desk and was panic-stricken. He could
hear the asinine jokes and heavy admonitions before they left the big
mouth under the waterfall moustache. Yes, here they came. Here was the
Charge Book. Here was the pronouncement.

“Wait,” he said, and was hurt to find that even his own voice was going
against him. It sounded strangled and hysterical. “Get into touch with
Lady Amanda Fitton at the Principal’s House at the Bridge Institute.”

He saw they were surprised by something. It had not been the name, but
the address had touched them. He seized the pause and hurried on.

“Also get hold of Yeo, of Scotland Yard. Find him. Tell him I’m here.”

That made them laugh. Their great grins merged into one huge idiot face,
like a mask of comedy on the ceiling of a theatre.

“All in good time, my lad,” said the Charge Sergeant. “You shall have
the Queen to see you if you don’t hurry it. Meanwhile if you could wait
a minute I’ll just charge you, if you don’t mind. We don’t want to do
anything against the book, do we?”

The clock with the face as big as a tea-tray leered over the Sergeant’s
shoulder. One o’clock. There was no time for anything. He must get to
the Nag at once, within the half hour. The big hand moved while he
looked at it.

“Send for Hutch,” he implored in panic.

Hutch was at least intelligent. Angry and suspicious he probably was,
but at least his mind worked. Perhaps he could be got to see the hideous
urgency of the occasion.

“Here, that’ll do, that’ll do.” The Charge Sergeant was scandalized.
“Superintendent Hutch has quite enough to do without bothering himself
about you. If he wants to see you he’ll come in his own time. Now then,
Albert Campion. You are charged in that you did feloniously utter
counterfeit banknotes to the value of one pound at the railway station
booking office at . . .”

Campion ceased to hear. He went deaf and blind. A great avalanche of
fury at their incompetence descended over him, sweeping away every shred
of his control. Good God, they couldn’t even charge him with something
he’d done! They were going to hold him in this gimcrack police station
on some drivelling mistake or invented charge while the minutes rushed
by. The door was open behind him and he did the fatal thing.

As he sprang for the rectangle of light the plain-clothes man seized
him. Campion slung him off, pitching him half across the room. The
turnkey shouted and the young constable raised a great fist, while a
slow silly smile of surprised delight spread over his face. Campion took
the blow just under the ear. The force of it lifted him off his feet and
sent him sprawling across the board towards the forms built in all round
the room. The rounded edge of polished wood met his left temple with a
crack which echoed round the building. He fell into complete darkness
and lay still.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Albert Campion came to himself in the cell. He gathered where he was at
once and sat up on the hard couch, smiling ruefully. A clock striking
two somewhere in the town surprised him and he raised his eyebrows. To
the best of his knowledge it must have been round about six in the
evening when he had encountered the toughs down at the quayside. It was
now daylight, so that if he had been out for round about twenty hours he
must have taken a pretty severe blow. How extraordinarily like these
country police to bring him into a cell and leave him to die while they
found out who he was! So far they must have been singularly
unsuccessful, the damned fools, and, while he was on that subject, where
was Oates?

For the first time he felt a twinge of anxiety. Oates had certainly been
with him. He remembered his own amused exasperation when the shambling
figure, really astonishingly unfamiliar in the dirty flannels and
threadbare greatcoat, had appeared at his elbow as he stepped out of
Lugg’s paper shop. Poor old Oates! He had been badly rattled. The thing
was getting him down, as well it might of course, but it had been
shocking to see him losing his grip and to hear his voice go husky as he
admitted: “I wrote you last night, but I couldn’t stick it. I simply
couldn’t sit up there and wait. I just walked out to see you. For God’s
sake, Campion, have you got a line?”

Well, he had, and he’d said so and they’d gone on together. The fight
had been pretty sensational. Campion felt his head cautiously. Yes,
there it was. A very nasty spongy little spot, by jiminy. There must
have been five or six in the gang, all pro’s and all using coshes, which
had been fortunate. Had it been razors he might well have awakened to
hear a harp quintet instead of the mouth-organ which some misguided
amateur was playing in the street outside.

All the same, it had not been exactly a walk among the apple-blossoms.
The money had drawn the gangsters, as he had hoped it would, and he had
recognized them. He went over them in his mind. The Lily had been there,
and the elder Weaver, and Williams, and the Glasshouse Johns, all C.R.O.
boys as he suspected.

Who were the others? He could not remember at the moment.

He didn’t feel too intelligent. He felt exhausted and somehow—yes, that
was it, chastened. How off! He might have had some deep emotional
experience rather than a bang on the head. He longed for a newspaper. He
hadn’t seen the news from the Front for seventeen hours. Anything might
have happened. There was this business, too. The whole thing might have
suddenly broken and what had been left of the ordered world be in chaos
while he was sitting here.

He laughed at himself softly. He was getting jittery, like poor old
Oates. It was having so much at stake, of course. Still, there was
plenty of time. There would be no move until Minute Fifteen was about to
be launched and that was several days away.

The clock struck the quarter and he admired its chimes. Some of these
old towns had lovely chimes. Lovely corners, too. Bridge was a
remarkably lovely place if only one could forget the calendars, the
picture postcards, the ornamental biscuit-tins which made it hackneyed.
Seen for the first time, Bridge must be staggering. Amanda was at Bridge
and in a month they’d be married. A dear kid, Amanda. So young. Too
young for him? Sometimes he was very much afraid so. His fine thin mouth
twisted regretfully. One got so beastly self-sufficient as one grew
older and there was the girl to think of. He’d hate to imprison her, to
suppress her in any way.

A definite twinge, physical and yet bringing with it a sense of shame,
stabbed his heart over. At the same time he saw Amanda in his mind’s eye
as clearly as if she stood before him. She was looking at him with a
sort of stricken astonishment and reciting the first line of that silly
old tag they had found together in the _Gentleman’s Magazine_ for 1860.
“_Begone! she stormed, across the raging tide._”

The hallucination was so vivid, the pain in his side so acute, and the
sense of self-disgust so strong that it brought him to his feet. He was
ill. This blow on the head had affected him seriously. Good lord!
Nothing like that must happen now. Things were a damned sight too
serious. Of course they were, because no one _knew_. He and Oates were
the only pair on earth who knew the full strength—and it was stupendous
when you saw it in the round. It was criminally dangerous; he’d argued
that from the beginning. Besides, where was Oates?

He went over to the judas-window in the cell door and peered through it
into the empty passage outside. Not a soul, of course. He sighed and,
putting his fingers to his mouth, gave a very reliable imitation of a
police whistle. Five minutes’ intensive effort produced the desired
result.

The turnkey, puce in the face with fury, put his head in at the farther
door.

“Shop,” said Campion pleasantly. “Can I see the manager?”

“You’ll be lucky if you see fresh air again, my lad. We’ve had to send
Detective-Sergeant Doran to hospital.”

(Hospital? Why should the word send a thrill of terror through him? He
was ill, dangerously ill. He’d have to go and see old Todd of Wimpole
Street, when he got back. Where had the old man evacuated himself to?)

“I’m sorry for Doran,” he said aloud. “I can’t say I recognize the name.
Still, I sympathize with your domestic worries. And in the meantime, do
you think you could make an effort to do a little business? This isn’t
the Central Coachingford Station, is it?”

The turnkey came farther into the passage, looking like a mystified
bullpup.

“You’ve changed your tune, ain’t you?” he demanded.

“I’m no longer unconscious, if that’s what you mean,” said Campion with
gentle dignity. “And while we’re on that subject, as a Metropolitan man
I don’t like to criticize your County arrangements, but, just to soothe
my curiosity do tell me, when you bring in a concussion case do you
usually leave it for the best part of a day and a night without medical
attention?”

The turnkey gaped at him, his small eyes bewildered.

“You’re crackers and you’re impudent,” he said. “That’s what you are.
You won’t get anywhere by putting it on either. Shouting for a doctor
now, are you? You’ll be lucky if you see a magistrate the way you’re
going on.”

Campion, whose face was pressed against the narrow slit in the door,
frowned reprovingly.

“Just clear your mind,” he said. “Save a little time by using the brain
with which I see a kind Government has issued you. Which of the five
Coachingford Police Stations is this one?”

“Waterhouse Street. You know that as well as I do, or ought to, after
the way you tore the road up coming here.”

“Really? It’s that sort of concussion, is it? Bits of bone sticking in
the grey matter. My hat, you don’t look after your professional guests,
do you? Have you left me here since last night biting buttons off the
furniture?”

“Being difficult won’t pay,” said the turnkey and turned away in
disgust.

“Let us hope Superintendent Rose will accept your diagnosis,” Campion
murmured, reflecting that it was better to mention the regular police
Superintendent rather than the C.I.D. man. What was his name? Hutch, was
it?

“Superintendent Rose?” The name appeared to have certain magic
properties. The turnkey was hesitating but at the last moment some new
consideration appeared to make up his mind for him. “Superintendent Rose
doesn’t bother himself with snide-panners who beat up plain-clothes men.
Besides, you’ve only been in an hour and a half. What d’you think this
is—a quick-lunch counter?” he said and went out, locking the door
behind him.

Campion was astounded. He had always found County Police particularly
intelligent. This type of crass idiocy was new to him. The clock outside
chimed another quarter hour and he cursed it. It had lost its charm and
was now irritating. The whole thing was really damnably unfortunate.
Besides, he’d got work to do. There was that date with the C.I.D. Super
to go over the Nag, and he wanted to have a look at the Institute.

He had discovered the main game, he was sure of that. He had told Oates
so, definitely. He lay down on the hard bed and began to rearrange his
mind. He seemed to have the afternoon before him. Oates—and where was
he, by the way?—had the wind-up. That was very unlike him and argued
that he must have had the importance of the thing pretty hot and strong
from the Cabinet itself.

Well then, to return to business. When Oates had borrowed him from
Headquarters and had first come out with this staggering tale of
thousands of counterfeit notes, so perfect that “one has to boil them
down to detect them,” he had said that he thought the scheme was on a
colossal scale and might actually be aiming at some sort of sudden
unofficial inflation, which would of course pitch the country’s whole
economy into hell, destroy public confidence, pull down the Government,
and, if issued at the right moment, bring about the moral collapse of
the nation. Since Britain, as usual, seemed to have nothing absolutely
ready to save her morals, the danger had seemed terrifying.

As he lay looking at the little barred window high in the wall, Campion
reflected that so far he had been inclined to doubt the possibility of
the scheme being so enormous. Oates had shown him the notes which had
been found in two or three industrial towns. They had certainly been
cracking good forgeries and could have been manufactured only in the
official printing houses of an enemy power. Moreover, and the ingenuity
of that move still took his breath away, they had been artificially
dirtied most ingeniously.

Oates had put various picked men on to the job in different towns. All
of them had drawn a blank save the man at Coachingford. He had reported
the presence of some sort of crook organization, either in the town or
at Bridge. Poor chap, he hadn’t got much further. They’d fished him out
of the estuary with a broken neck. It had been professional work, very
neat and nasty, done with a lead pipe as like as not.

Campion stirred uncomfortably. There was something curious about the
killing, something personal and near at hand. What was it? There was
something on his mind that kept escaping him. It was probably nothing
important but he found it irritating.

That damned clack again. That was a quarter to three, he supposed. He
dismissed his irritation and went on dreamily with his reminiscences.
Well, Oates had borrowed him and sent him to Coachingford. Amanda had
got them both an invitation to stay at Bridge with Lee Aubrey, who was
brilliant, he supposed. Everybody said so. Personally he suspected these
academic dreamers. Still, let that pass. He had instated old Lugg in the
town with a stock of the counterfeit and some old clothes. Then he had
spent half a day at Bridge making arrangements, had come into
Coachingford, changed into a tramp’s outfit, and had gone off
reconnoitring.

That had been an experience he would never forget. All the subversive
element in the town was in a ferment. “Blokes were giving away
cash—great wads of it.” And the riff-raff of the place had been turned
into a great greedy bulging-eyed secret society, getting rich quick as
quids were handed to them behind doors, in doss houses, over greasy
coffee-tables.

This had been a discovery, but it had been followed by another one. He
had discovered that a whisper was going round to the effect that the
great day was coming on the sixteenth. That was going to be
milk-and-honey day, the day when it was going to be everybody’s duty to
spend and the wherewithal was going to be miraculously provided.

That had been a peculiarly uncomfortable discovery because the sixteenth
was to be a red-letter day in other, more orthodox financial circles. On
the sixteenth the Minute Fifteen Defence Loan was to be presented to the
public. There was no doubt about it, the whole affair was alarming. If
it was by any staggering chance as bad as Oates thought it was then it
was hair-raising.

Leaning back on the bench Campion reflected on his subsequent actions.
For a long time it had been impossible to locate any of these munificent
agents and he had finally decided to take the bull by the horns and
appear himself as one of them. That had drawn the flock. The whole bunch
had turned up together, as he had known they would. Both he and Oates
had been able to get a good look at them. They had made quite an
impressive gathering and it had occurred to him then that it had taken
someone with a real flair for organization to get that crew together.

Then there had been the fight and the police had come up. He remembered
very little of the action save the sticky paving-stones of the quay and
the awful mud-coloured water, thick with scum and rubbish.

Since the police had no idea who he and Oates were, either, they had
been extraordinarily lucky to get away alive. That was why it had been
so criminally dangerous for Oates to have come down and taken part
himself. Suppose they had both been put out, then what might have
happened? Of course, if Oates’ theory of engineered inflation had
anything in it at all he was justified in trusting as few people as
possible, since any whisper of such a disaster might very easily start a
scare nearly as bad as the thing itself. Good God, it was a horrible
idea!

Campion pushed his hands through his hair and shivered. All the same,
now he looked at it in cold blood he still maintained that the enormous
scale of the plan as Oates saw it must be impossible because of the
difficulties of distribution.

As long as the Enemy stuck to his present method of doling the money out
by hand to the vagrant population the whole affair could be dealt with
by the police. But a decisive blow of the kind Oates envisaged would
demand instantaneous distribution of the stuff all over the country.
Campion did not see how it could be done without the cooperation of the
public. After all, the public had got to be induced first to take and
then to spend the cash. It just was not possible. It is notoriously
difficult to give away money by cash in the street. Generations of
ordered living had taught the ordinary citizen that there is something
very fishy and dangerous about banknotes which are not paid for in blood
and sweat. No, the thing as Oates foresaw it could not happen, not on
that scale, thank God.

And yet . . . yet . . .

He got up and walked irritably up and down the cell. This knock on the
head was serious. It was having an extraordinary effect on him. The
clock chiming another quarter sent an unexpected and unwarranted thrill
of pure despair through him. Why was that? What the hell was the matter
with him? There was a burden on his shoulders. Self-disgust leant on his
arms. His feet were heavy with grief. Misery and the utter wretchedness
of failure clung to him. This was terrible. This meant he was a . . .
what was it? Manic depressive? Something like that. Perhaps he ought to
try and sleep it off. After all, he must not go sick now. Today must be
the fourteenth, by jove. And the sixteenth was the zero-hour. However,
since he had located the actual men engaged the round-up should not take
long. Fortunately the police had a few new powers under the Emergency
Laws. They could finish this thing off quickly and release him to his
work again. Perhaps there would be time to get married in the interim,
if only . . . If only what?

Once again there was that physical tug at his heart, again that
overwhelming sense of self-disgust, and again a definite picture in his
mind of Amanda herself, hurt and puzzled, waiting for the other lines of
a doggerel couplet. It was mania all right, obviously. Some variety of
mental kink, probably irritatingly well known. The sooner he got himself
out of here and put himself into the hands of a reliable doctor the
better. All very well to be gallantly negligent about a sore thumb or a
lump on the skull, but mental trouble was a different caper altogether.

It wasn’t going to be very easy to get out either, with this peculiarly
obtuse specimen on the door. He must have been taken in completely by
the vagrant’s outfit; that and the money, of course. Those two taken
together would be a difficult pill for any honest copper to swallow.

He glanced ruefully at his clothes and made a discovery which took him
completely off his balance.

_He was not wearing the suit in which he had had the quayside fight._

He stared into the cloth of his trouser knees and wrenched at the inside
pocket of his jacket to find the tailor’s label. It was his suit all
right. He recognized it and knew too that it should have been hanging up
in a wardrobe in his bedroom in Lee Aubrey’s house in Bridge. Moreover,
it was a new suit according to the date on the label, yet as he looked
at it now he saw that it was dirty and crumpled and showed signs of
having had hard wear for some little time.

The jolt to his nervous system was tremendous, the mental equivalent of
a gigantic thump between the shoulder-blades. Then a frightful misgiving
crept up close to him and laid its cold cheek on his heart. He had been
here some time. How . . . long?

Out in the town the clock struck again, announcing that yet another
quarter of an hour had passed.


                                  XIX

He saw Amanda through the judas-window. She came walking into the
passage with the turnkey, completely unself-conscious and comfortably
serene.

“Hullo,” she said cheerfully as she caught sight of half his face
through the slit. “They phoned your message to me, but they won’t let me
bail you out.”

“What message?” The question was in his mouth but he did not put it. His
eyes had narrowed and his thin face wore a startled expression. The
instant he had seen Amanda it had come to him that something
revolutionary, he was not at all sure that it was not evolutionary, must
have taken place within him. He had grown old, or seen a great light, or
else his blundering feet were on the ground at last. He thought he knew
what it was all right. The symptoms were unmistakable. That sense of
exasperated shame, that desire to kick himself or to cover his eyes with
his great burning ears, all these indicated that his self-confidence had
received a dangerous blow. A great weakness must have been uncovered.
His misgivings increased and he remained staring at the girl through the
judas-slit, with his eyes fixed and his forehead wrinkled.

Presently he realized what it was that he found so puzzling. He had
known Amanda since she had been a child and yet now there was something
new about her. He found out what it was. He was seeing her through some
sort of mental curtain. His subconscious mind reached out for this
infuriating barrier and drew it slowly aside like a wet page.

The complete picture lay before him.

He saw it all in a single dreadful moment of revelation. The whole
kaleidoscopic history of the last thirty-six hours, painted with
pitiless clarity and minute detail, unfolded before him in all its stark
gravity; a mad, uncomic strip with himself wandering blindfold through
it like a lost soul.

Then, as his two minds and personalities merged at last, as the new
Campion’s witless discoveries fitted over the old Campion’s certain
knowledge, the three-dimensional truth suddenly sprang out in blazing
colours. He stood petrified. Good God Almighty! He knew now what the
contraband was in those cases which the wretched Anscombe had been
bribed to accept as honest Rhine wine! It could only be a counterfeit,
the artificially dirtied indetectable counterfeit itself. Millions and
millions of pounds’ worth of lies and disruption. Anscombe had been
murdered because he was preparing to salve his conscience and to confess
to the contents of those packing-cases. Probably he intended to hand
over his own small fortune in cash to the Treasury by way of a gesture
after his confession.

Then there were the lorries. They were for the distribution, obviously.
How this was going to be done, and what the magic password was which
would make the sober, suspicious British public accept and spend this
dynamite, was still a mystery. But the time, the hour of striking, was
not. Anscombe had given that away by mentioning Minute Fifteen. Today
_was_ the fifteenth, and they were not going to wait until tomorrow. The
hour was now. Perhaps this very minute. It had all come back to him. He
knew where he was. He knew what he had got to do.

The danger was stultifying. His body winced inside. A year, six months,
even three months ago such a gigantic project would have been fantastic,
but tonight, in this beleaguered England, with all the tides of a new
and diabolically astute barbary lapping at her feet, the plan was a
sound weapon and it was poised squarely at her heart.

Panic possessed him and all but choked him. The time was almost gone and
he was piteously helpless. He pressed his face to the judas-window.

“Amanda!”

“Yes?” She smiled at him quickly, reassuringly.

Campion took careful hold of himself and strove to compress and clarify
the message he had to give her. Time had become as precious as a little
drop of water in the bottom of a pannikin in the desert.

The clock chiming across the street was pure medieval torture.

“Look, my darling,” he said, aware of the state of affairs between them,
aware of his loss and its magnitude and thrusting it out of his mind
because of the racing minutes and the disaster ahead, “I’ve got to get
out of here immediately. Listen, Amanda, there was some sort of scrap on
the quayside before I got into that hospital. One or two people may have
got beaten up in it, but that’s not the point . . .”

“’Ere, what are you saying?” The turnkey was very excited. “I’ll ’ave to
ask you to repeat that.”

Amanda ignored the interruption. She leant forward to catch anything
Campion might have to tell her.

“Oates was with me then,” he said distinctly.

He saw her brown eyes widen and a flicker pass over her face.

“Where is he?” he went on desperately. “I’ve got to get out, Amanda.
I’ve got to get out and go down to the Nag immediately.”

“Yes, I see,” she said briefly. She turned on her heel at once and the
turnkey had to hurry to keep up with her. She went so quickly that her
going might have been desertion. The turnkey certainly put it down as
that.

He came back a moment or so later, carrying a police memorandum. He was
inclined to be amused by Amanda’s exit, but very soon the description of
the wanted person took up all his time and intelligence. He was a type
mercifully rare in the Force, but every great organization had its minor
blunders. He sat on the long bench which ran down the corridor wall
opposite the cell and spelt out the points line by line. At every fresh
item he got up and came over to peer at his victim through the slit. He
was studiously deaf to every remark addressed to him and frequently
returned to the beginning of his task, having forgotten how far he had
got in it.

Campion began to suffer the tortures of the damned. The war, with all
its noisy horror as he knew it in the battle zones, was very close to
him. He could see and hear it over Britain, not merely as air raids but
as invasion, and then, as well as these, he saw the whole country
suddenly hit in the wind by an entirely unexpected blow. The magnificent
jingle from the end of King John came into his mind: “_Come the three
corners of the world in arms, and we shall shock them: nought shall make
us rue, if England to itself do rest but true._” “But true”: there was
the talisman, there the strength and there the danger. “But true.” But
confident of her own solidarity. “But true” . . .

Oh, God, let him get out! O sweet sanity! O ultimate honesty and the
final triumph of the best! O faith in good as a force and an entity, let
him get out in time!

The turnkey began to read the description again with cross-references.

“Yeller ’air . . . yeller ’air. Six-foot-two inches . . . well, just
about. Very likely. ’Ere I say you in there, ’ow tall are you?”

“Yes, yes, that’s a description of me.” Campion’s voice was shaking with
his effort to control it. “I admit that. Don’t worry about that any
more. Now look here, this is serious. This is a million times more
important and more urgent than any air raid siren. Either fetch me the
most senior officer in the building or let me use the telephone at once.
This is vital. Do you understand? It’s so vital and so urgent that if
you don’t do it it won’t much matter if you’ve discovered grounds for an
arrest on that bit of paper or not. If you don’t bring me someone in
authority immediately I don’t think you’ll wake up in the same world
tomorrow morning.”

“Threats, eh?” said the turnkey with idiot satisfaction. “I’ll ’ave to
report all that. You want to be very careful what you say, my lad. This
may not be the East Coast, but even so you can’t be too careful these
days. Fifth Column, that’s what we’re looking out for all the time.”

“Listen.” Campion’s hands were sticky on the door of the cell. “I want
to make a complete statement. I’m entitled to have a detective sergeant
take it down.”

“In good time. In good time you shall have one of His Majesty’s judges
listening to you,” said the turnkey without stirring. “In half a minute
I’ll take your statement myself.”

This was a form of torture new to Campion. The Ordeal by Fool might well
go down in the calendar, he felt. He swung away from the judas-window
and walked down the cell. His agony of exasperation was so acute that it
was physical, catching him in the throat and diaphragm, pressing on them
until he could scarcely breathe. He sat down on the bunk and stared at
the stone floor. His mind began to work over the situation feverishly.
There was the plan itself. That was simple and terrible. There was only
one last secret there: how was this devilishly convincing counterfeit to
be distributed in sufficient quantities and in sufficiently short time
to do the work of destruction? It was just possible that this snag had
not been entirely overcome. If so, there was just a chance of salvation
still. Yet it was madness to hope for a mistake or a weakness in the
Enemy. That was absurd. That was criminal.

The clock chimed again. Each note beat through him in shivering pain.
Outside in the passage the turnkey had risen and was peering at him
through the judas-slit.

“Slim build . . .” he was muttering. “Slim build.”

Campion’s mind scurried on, tearing at the knots with nervy, unsteady
fingers. His head still hurt him considerably and he felt weak and
physically unreliable, but there was still a great reserve of raging
nervous energy boiling within him. Everything was startlingly clear.
What he did know stood out in bright colours. What he did not know was
defined and impenetrably black.

The whole scheme must have been Enemy Alien in the beginning; so much
was obvious. The neatness and ingenuity of the arrangements all pointed
to the same diabolically competent organization.

He went back to the judas-window and peered out at the policeman. As his
eyes rested on that square, well-padded head, with its bald spot and
fringe of oiled grey hair, it came to him with an overwhelming sense of
finality that there was absolutely nothing he could say or do which
would be of the slightest use.

Now that he had the whole picture in his mind he could see his own
mistakes standing out like enemy flags on a map. That dash for freedom
after they charged him, that had been suicidal. He knew from long
experience of the police and their ways that nothing he did after that
would make one ha-porth of difference. He knew what they were doing.
They were letting him cool off. The more noise he made, the more he
argued, the longer they would leave him. It was maddening, like being
held at bay by one’s own dog.

He had closed his eyes while he swallowed the inevitable and he stood
now with his hands resting high up on the inside of the door and his
blank face held to the judas-slit. There was no sound. Nothing concrete
disturbed him, yet presently his eyes flickered open eagerly and he
stood watching without moving.

The turnkey was sitting on the bench with his head raised and a foolish,
startled expression on his face. His eyes were fixed on the farther
door, the one which led to the corridor and the charge-room, and he too
was listening intently.

Campion realized that there was a judas-window in the farther door also
and someone was watching the pair of them through it. It was a moment of
intense excitement. Hope leapt up in him and he forced himself to hold
his tongue. After what seemed an age of indecision the turnkey blundered
to his feet and went to unlock the door.

Campion’s fingernails cut into his hands and his mouth was dry. So much
depended on this silly little question. So much. An Empire? Perhaps a
civilization. All depending on who came into a prison corridor.

His first despairing impression was that the man was a stranger. He
stooped to pass through the doorway and he was wearing a scarf wrapped
round the lower part of his face. As he lifted his head, however,
Campion knew him. It was Hutch.

The scarf took Campion off his guard. He knew quite well what it must be
protecting but he had not expected it. He had not only never meant to
hit so hard but in his present three-dimensional world the whole notion
of doing such a thing at all savoured of madness.

It was the clock again which pulled him together. Its fifteen-minute
chimes must have been a torture to any prisoner at any time, but to
Campion they had become a scourge.

“Hutch,” he said softly.

The man came over to the door and looked in through the window. He did
not speak and his blue eyes were very bleak.

Campion took a deep breath.

“I must have a word with you,” he said quietly. “I know there’s a hell
of a lot to explain. I’ve been walking around punch-drunk for the best
part of two days. However, you shall have chapter and verse for
everything in an hour or so. But just at the moment there’s something
that’s got to be done. We’ve got to go to Bridge. We’ve got to get to
the Nag at once. My dear fellow, you needn’t let me out of your sight.”

Still Hutch did not reply, nor did he alter his expression. Desperation
made Campion very quiet and almost conversational.

“I can give you any bona fides you need,” he said. “My S.S. number is
twenty-seven. I’ve been lent to Chief Constable of the C.I.D. Mr
Stanislaus Oates. The work we’re engaged on concerns Folio 6B and Minute
Fifteen, but it’s so damnably urgent now that I must insist . . .”

Hutch stepped back from the judas-window.

“For God’s sake, man!” Campion’s cry came from his soul and to his
relief he heard the lock. The door swung wide and he stepped out to
confront the Superintendent, who was still regarding him with a curious
expression on the half of his face which showed above his muffler.

Campion opened his mouth to speak but got no farther. Hutch had turned
to the wall and was scribbling a line or two on the back of an envelope
taken from his pocket. The message was enlightening.

“Just located Oates. Has been St Jude’s Hospital unconscious since Tues.
night. Has been under police guard in error. Was thought to have killed
copper in street fight on quay. Police here b. fools. Oates just come
round and Doc says out of danger.”

Understanding came to Campion. Of course! That explained it at last. The
policeman and the nurse and that incredible conversation he had
overheard from his bed in the huge deserted ward. They could never have
been talking about himself. They must have been discussing poor old
Oates, who was probably lying in a little private room leading off the
main ward. Now he had his wits about him that much was obvious. When a
police constable watches a man in bed he watches from a chair at the
foot of that bed and does not stand about in a passage. Yet it had all
seemed very convincing at the time.

Hutch was still scribbling.

“Lady A found him. Sent for me. You can leave here when you like. We’ll
square this lot. Understand it’s urgent. She’s outside with the car.”

“Is she?” Campion leapt to the door. “You’ll want twenty or thirty armed
men,” he said over his shoulder. “Bring them to the Nag at once. It’s
desperate. What’s the time?”

“4.50.” Hutch wrote the figures and Campion had to step back to look at
them.

“What’s the matter with you?” he demanded as the oddity of the
proceeding suddenly occurred to him.

Hutch gave him a slow sidelong glance and his hand began to move again.

“You’ve cracked my ruddy jaw, blast you,” he wrote. “Get on with it. I’m
following.”


                                   XX

Campion stepped out of the comparative calm of the police station into a
world of exuberant speed. A tremendous wind had sprung up over the town,
and low-lying clouds, like shoals of enormous blue-black sharks, swam
across a brilliant sky. There was rain coming and the air felt damp and
soft and exciting. Everywhere, from the scraps of wastepaper
cartwheeling down the road to the flying patches of alternate sun and
shadow which flickered over housetops and pavements, there was an
impression of desperate urgency, of superhuman efforts to be quick.

The car was at the kerb with the engine running and, as he appeared, the
door swung open to meet him. Amanda slid out of the driving seat and
handed over the wheel.

“That’s good,” she said with characteristic understatement. “I say, God
bless Hutch. That man hasn’t a grudge in his make-up, Albert. Rather a
mercy in the circumstances, of course. He came at once when I phoned him
from the hospital and Oates did the rest.”

Campion climbed into the car and slammed the door.

“You found Oates pretty quickly,” he remarked as he let in the clutch.

“Well, naturally.” She was astonished. “You told me where he was. Why
didn’t you part up with the information before?”

“I hadn’t got it.”

“I thought you said he was with you in a fight before you went into
hospital yourself? You were all right, you see, but he was knocked out
completely. No one recognized him, as of course they wouldn’t, and it
was assumed he’d killed the copper.” She shot a dubious glance at him
from under her eyelashes. “Anyway, he’s conscious and he’s recovering,”
she added, “but he’s practically out of his mind with worry. They were
having to hold him down in the bed when I came away. He told me over and
over again to impress it on you that every moment mattered. Turn here.
We’ve got to go down to the paper shop.”

“What for?”

“A message from Lugg,” she said calmly. “I got him to go over to the Nag
at once. I went straight to him when I left you. We didn’t know what you
wanted done there, so he’s just going to scout round and phone the paper
shop if there’s anything to report.”

Campion looked at her out of the corner of his eye. She was sitting
placidly beside him with her slender brown hands folded in her lap. She
might have been a self-possessed sixteen-year-old going to a race
meeting. Her heart-shaped face was serene and her brown eyes clear and
level. There was no telling what was going on in her mind. He must have
taken her for granted for years now. The reflection sprang up in his
head and shook him off his guard.

“That was remarkably bright of you,” he said, and knew as soon as he had
spoken that it was not so. Amanda always was bright. There was nothing
remarkable about it. Amanda was God’s own gift to anyone in a hole and
always had been. He seemed to have become too used to it. However, she
was entertained by the compliment.

“Praise is always welcome,” she observed, grinning at him. “Nothing
fulsome, of course. I say, it’s pretty serious, isn’t it?”

He nodded. “Not so hot. Time’s short. That’s the shop, isn’t it, over
there?”

“Yes. You wait. I’ll get the message if there is one. Keep the bus
running.”

She was out before he reached the kerb and he watched her disappear into
the dark entrance between the empty newsboards. As he sat waiting the
familiar chime of the fifteen-minute clock reached him from across the
housetops. Fifteen minutes: Minute Fifteen. It was a ridiculous little
coincidence but, once it had occurred to him, he could not get it out of
his mind.

Fif-teen min-utes. Min-ute Fif-teen. Hur-ry hur-ry. Ding-dong.
Ding-dong. Late. Late. Late. Late. Late.

He counted the strokes. Five of them. Too late.

He _was_ too late.

The sudden and startling reflection came like another revelation. He
felt as if he had just opened his eyes to find that he was staring down
into a well. Good God, he was not going to pull it off! Hutch and his
men could never get there in the time. The secretly unthinkable was
actually going to occur. They were going to lose. The police, including
himself, were licked. The ultimate disaster was going to come off.

“I say, don’t look so terrified. It’s bad for morale,” said Amanda
seriously. She had come back without him seeing her and now settled down
beside him. “This is where we travel faster than light,” she announced.
“Lugg did phone, ten minutes ago. It was a message for you and the
shopkeeper had the presence of mind to take it down verbatim. I’ll read
it to you while you concentrate on the road. He says ‘The hornet’s nest
is round the back of the hill on the old coast road. I expect you know
that but they are. A railing over the entrance to the hill cave has been
took down and I see several hundred jams inside.’ Is ‘jams’ right?”

Campion nodded. “Rhyming-slang. Jam-jar equals car. Go on.”

Amanda continued obligingly, the message gaining in piquancy from her
clear, well-bred young voice.

“‘All our friends are there. Not half they are not and some more. There
is strong signs of a move any minute now. The local rozzers have an idea
that it is all some kind of Government work but it cannot be with all
that gang on board or I am barmy. Have hid myself in garden of empty
house bottom of coast road right side of hill. If you want to catch
them, which I take it is what you are after, you will have to put your
skates on. I am about as good as a bucket of nothing here alone.’”

Amanda folded the sheet and thrust it in her jacket pocket.

“Of course he is, poor old tortoise,” she said. “Coming from him, that’s
by way of being an S O S, isn’t it?”

“I’m afraid so.” Campion was taking the last of the town at speed. He
had had some wild journeys on this road to Bridge, which was so
anonymous and difficult without its signposts, but this evening, with
the yellow sun streaming behind him and the dark flying shapes overhead,
it had an entirely new quality. For the first time for what seemed a
lifetime he was in full possession of all his senses and the condition
seemed to have its disadvantages.

For one thing he was acutely aware that Amanda was beside him. Her share
in his recent nightmare was very vivid in his mind. He remembered, too,
exactly how he had reacted to it. In his lonely and terrified ignorance
she had emerged as a necessity, a lifeline, heaven-sent and
indispensable. Now, with the full recollection of a long and
sophisticated bachelor life behind him, and the most gigantic disaster
of all time looking just ahead, he was startled to find that she
remained just that; static and unalterable, like the sun or the earth.

The recollection of her confidences concerning Lee Aubrey made him feel
physically sick. He had been in love, he remembered, many times. This
was not much like it. To say that he was in love with Amanda seemed
futile and rather cheap. To lose her . . . His mind shied at the idea
and his body felt cold.

“Hurry,” she said at his side. “Hurry and we’ll do it.”

He shook his head. “Sorry, old lady,” he said heavily, “but to be honest
I’m terribly afraid we’re sunk.”

“What?” She sat bolt upright in the seat beside him, her back stiff and
her eyes scandalized. “But I say, Albert,” she said, “you _must_ pull it
off. Oates made it so clear. He said everything depended on you. You
can’t say you’re afraid we’re sunk. You’ve got to stop it somehow.
Everyone’s relying on you. You can’t fail and go on living.”

Campion frowned and a faint colour spread over his face.

“Oh stow the heroics,” he said unpardonably, because he was wretched.
“Some things are impossible, and for poor old Lugg and me to stop three
hundred crook-driven lorries without police assistance is one of them. I
can’t even appeal to the local Bridge police because the chances are
that as soon as they see me they’ll pounce on me and stuff me in jug
again. It’s all very well to be an optimist, my beautiful, but one
doesn’t want to be a dear little nut, does one?”

“Nonsense,” said Amanda, unperturbed and without resentment. “All it
means is that there are times when one has to do a miracle. This is one
of those. You think one up.”

Campion did not answer. The request seemed to him to be unreasonable. He
allowed himself to think of Amanda for a moment or two. This attitude of
hers was typical. She never had and never would get it into her dear
head that anything was impossible. Her optimism was childlike and
unbounded, her faith in himself embarrassing. At the moment she was
exasperating. Things could hardly be worse. Time was certain to beat
him. If he was honest with himself, he saw no way round it.

Unless . . .

An idea slid into his mind complete.

He sat gripping the wheel while the suggestion turned over and over in
his head. It was wild and probably suicidal, but it did contain one very
slender thread of hope.

“Are those gates where the sentry stands the only entrance to the
Institute?” he enquired.

Amanda cocked an eye at him. “None of those sentries would ever stop
_us_,” she said, catching his thought. “There’s only three of them. They
take it in turns and they’ve all seen us about with Aubrey.”

It was like her not to ask any questions. As usual, her only concern was
to further the project whatever it might turn out to be.

Campion took hold of himself. Losing Amanda was going to be like losing
an eye. Life would be a little less than half itself without her.

Meanwhile, however, the car was speeding down the narrow roads. The wind
roared behind it and overhead the dark blue clouds streaked out across
the sky like dirty finger nails. It was a wild ride, leading directly
towards almost certain catastrophe. The rain in the air, the urgency of
the wind, the tremendous drama of the skyscape, were all a fitting part
of the great central situation. A spiteful energy rose up in Campion and
he trod hard on the accelerator. If he was to go down it might as well
be scrapping.

He drove straight to the Institute and, leaving the car outside the
gates, went in past the sentry on foot. It was a ticklish moment but it
went by successfully, Amanda creating a heaven-sent diversion by
attempting to turn the car in a space six inches wider than its length.
He left her graciously accepting both advice and assistance.

Five minutes later he came back, walking very fast. He was a little
white round the cheekbones and he carried himself very carefully, but
the new recklessness was still there and when she relinquished the wheel
to him he took it eagerly.

He drove into the town with unusual caution and stopped at the top of
the Pykle, the hill looming up over them dirty and grey in the evening
light.

“You take the car,” he said urgently. “Go and find old Lugg and tell him
from me to get Hutch to block the coast road both ways as soon as he
comes, at the same time avoiding the actual entrance to the hill. No
single lorry must get out. When both barricades are up they can play
Annie Laurie or something else appropriate on a police whistle, but not
before. The one thing that really matters is that no lorry gets by.”

“Right.” She nodded and took the wheel again. “They probably won’t get
here in time,” she said, catching his eye. “You’ve got a scheme in case
of that, I take it?”

He grinned. His head was very sore and the prospects were about as bad
as they could be.

“I’ve only got a lucky bean plus a profound and lovely faith in myself,”
he said.

She echoed his expression, her eyes as affectionately derisive as his
own.

“Then I’ll pray,” she said cheerfully. “Good-bye. See you at dinner or
in the Elysian Fields.”

Campion hurried. Keeping one hand in his coat pocket, he swung down the
narrow passage beside the little old-fashioned shop under the Nag where
Hutch had taken him. It was not an easy journey to repeat in daylight,
especially when any delay was certain to be disastrous and one was not
at all sure one had not dreamt one’s directions in the first place.

He found the storeroom door standing wide and walked straight in,
nodding briefly to the startled boy who stood weighing dried fruit in
the back of the building. The fatal thing, he realized, would be to lose
his way. One moment’s hesitation and he betrayed himself instantly.

He strode on, hoping devoutly for the best, and plunged down a dusty
aisle lined with tea chests and bulging sacks of cereals. He heard the
boy moving behind him, then a new step on the boards and a lot of
whispering. He was going to be stopped. Now, at the eleventh hour, he
was going to be held up, caught like a mouse, in a damned grocer’s shop.

There was a bundle of long, old-fashioned soft brooms hanging from a
hook in the ceiling and he snatched one of them. The door leading into
the Masters’ domain was unlocked, as before, and when he went through it
he took the broom with him, and wedged it between the door panel and the
angle of the opposite wainscot. It was not a very effective barrier but
it would certainly hold the door against the most determined shoulder
for a minute or two, and it seemed most unlikely that any longer period
was going to matter very much.

Once inside in the dark a new difficulty presented itself. He had no
torch. Everything in his pockets except his cigarettes had been taken
from him at the police station and was probably hanging up now in a
little official bag outside the cell door.

He began to climb in the dark, praying against giddiness and keeping one
hand tightly clasped over the things in his coat pocket. He was
desperate with exasperation at his own slowness. Every moment counted.
Every minute which galloped by might be the one which made all the
difference between success and failure. His journey across the Council
Chamber turned out to be a crawl through hell. Once he cannoned into the
table, the hard wooden edge missing the burden in his pocket by inches,
and all the time the seconds were racing by.

He found the farther door after what promised to be complete defeat, by
observing a minute sliver of light showing just beneath it. He got it
open, to discover that the corridor within was lit by a hurricane
lantern standing at the entrance to the first of the Masters’
storerooms. Although Campion was profoundly relieved to see it from one
point of view, it presented another danger. He had no desire to run into
anyone before he reached the Nag’s Trough.

He went on, still with the same cautious haste which demanded every
ounce of nervous discipline he possessed. His eyelids were sticky and
his muscles hard and bunched against his bones.

There were lanterns in every vantage place and the damp stone had dried
round them, indicating that they had been burning for some time. A great
change had come over the Masters’ storerooms. The packing cases were
empty and the great caverns in confusion, as if an army had been at work
there. There was so much debris about, so many dark corners and
unexplained machines, that he hardly dared move, convinced that at any
moment a living figure must detach itself from the chaos and bar his
way.

He pushed on, feeling like a hurrying snail with all the world depending
on his speed. The iron ladders required very cautious negotiation in the
half-dark and he had his precious coat pocket to take care of during the
descent.

He came down into the last narrow passage without being seen. Here the
fumes of gasoline were almost suffocating and the throb of revving
engines made the very heart of the hill vibrate.

He edged on towards the right-angled bend which would bring him out on
the ledge overlooking the whole Trough. At least some of the trucks were
still there, although by the sound they were on the point of moving. The
police could never have arrived in time, and even had they done so there
could hardly have been enough of them. No one, not even Hutch in war
time, could conjure up such a large army of police at five minutes’
notice.

He turned the right-angled bend cautiously and looked out into the Nag’s
Trough. It made an amazing picture. The only light in the high cavern
came from the masked headlamps of the vehicles themselves, so that the
lorries and vans looked like great black humped insects trembling on a
lampshade. There appeared to Campion’s horrified eyes to be thousands of
them, all loaded to capacity with bursting sacks.

He kept flat against the dark wall of rock and edged farther along, so
that he could get a glimpse of the entrance round the protecting screen
of the natural rock partition.

When at last he was able to get an uninterrupted view his heart jolted
violently. There was a sacking curtain hanging over the single exit of
the coast road, and the foremost truck was stationary a good twenty feet
away from it. If he could do anything he was still in time.

The whole place was alive with people but voices were kept down and the
roar of engines predominated. It was a ghostly inferno of a scene. He
knew the trucks and vans must all be loaded up with financial dynamite,
freight far more dangerous than ammunition. It was the counterfeit all
right, that much was obvious, but inasmuch as its form of presentation
and distribution was still undiscovered it remained a secret weapon, its
degree of danger known only to the Enemy.

Campion strained his eyes through the gloom. Exhaust fumes were rising
all round him and he was beginning to feel their effects. Was that Pyne
in the far corner over by the sacking curtain? He thought it was. The
man was calmly checking trucks over on a timesheet as if he had been
running a goods yard.

The fumes were growing worse up in the roof. Campion felt himself
swaying and he put out his arms to steady himself. The sudden movement
must have caught the attention of someone in the crowd below, for a
shout went up and immediately the wide beam of a powerful torch began to
rake the ledge on which he stood.

Campion made up his mind. He had no idea what the effect of his solitary
“lucky bean” might be. From the beginning it had only been a forlorn
hope, but now the time had come to take the risk.

As the torch beam came nearer he drew the little steel egg from his coat
pocket and pulled out the pin. It had been really disgracefully easy to
steal it from Butcher’s workshop. That had simply been a question of
walking in and lifting it from its rack in the cupboard. The whole
proceeding could not have taken more than five minutes.

The phoenix egg nestled wickedly in the palm of his hand. Below him the
trucks trembled and steamed. The torch beam was within a yard of him. He
threw up his arm and stood spread-eagled against the wall.

“I hope you’re praying,” he said grimly to Amanda wherever she might be,
“because this is our first attempt at a miracle and it’s got to come
off.”

The egg sailed through the air to the goal he had chosen for it, low
down on the left-hand side of the entrance to the Trough. At the same
moment the torch beam got him and he dropped forward on his face as a
bullet spat at him.

The next moment the world pancaked. It was no ordinary explosion.
Campion’s immediate thought was that Butcher was another of those damned
maniacs with a passion for understatement.

There was very little noise, but it was as though some gigantic animal
had placed its lips to the entrance to the Trough and had sucked in very
sharply, only to blow out again immediately afterwards. There was a
rumble and the exit to the coast road disappeared under several tons of
earth and limestone sliding down from the Nag. The roar of fire followed
as a score of petrol tanks exploded and the whole of the upper half of
the cavern became a mass of flying paper.

Campion scrambled to his knees. Blood was trickling into his mouth and
his body felt as if it had been through a clothes wringer, but he was
alive and, as far as he knew, unwounded, save for the bullet graze
across his face.

Below him, in the bowl of the Trough, there was a sea of blazing petrol
and paper and the fumes of smouldering sacks. Millions of envelopes
covered the place like a fall of brown snow. Injured men swore and died
under their lorries, while others fought each other in their attempt to
clamber on to the ledge. But the ladders which were normally used for
this purpose had been smashed to matchwood and the bare sides of the
rock provided no foothold.

Campion gathered up a handful of the letters which were still fluttering
down over him as the hot air winnowed them up from the bonfire below,
and, using every ounce of strength left in his body, he crawled
painfully towards the mouth of the passage.

Hutch and his handful of men found him at the foot of the first iron
ladder as they came swarming in through the Masters’ storerooms to
investigate the explosion, which had shaken the town. The sergeant and
the constables went on at once to do what they could for the temporary
staff of Surveys Limited trapped in the horrors of the Trough, but the
Superintendent sat down by Campion on the stones and they looked at the
envelopes together.

There is something unspeakably shocking about a very simple idea which,
as well as being elementary, is also diabolical.

Both Campion and Hutch were highly sophisticated members of a generation
which has had to learn to steel itself against ever being astonished by
anything unpleasant, but there was a streak of frank bewilderment in
both their expressions as they glanced at each other across the handful
of envelopes.

The plan by which false inflation was to have been introduced overnight
in the most civilized island in the world was an exquisitely simple one.
Each of the envelopes was of the familiar Government colour and pattern.
_On His Majesty’s Service_ was printed across the front of each in the
standard ink and type, as was also the black frank-mark, the familiar
crown in the circle. Each envelope was, in fact, exactly the same as any
of those others which were being circulated officially in millions on
behalf of Minute Fifteen.

By the light of the Superintendent’s torch Campion opened one of the
packets. It was addressed to a Mr P. Carter, 2 Lysander Cottages,
Netherland Road, Bury-under-Lyne, and it contained seven of the spurious
and artificially dirtied banknotes, as well as a buff-coloured printed
slip, the text of which was masterly in its uncomplicated wickedness.

“The Ministry of Labour, Whitehall, London, S.W. SRG. 20539.

    “Dear Sir/Madam,

    “The enclosed sum of £7 0s. 0d. has been awarded to you on the
    War Bonus Claims Committee’s recommendation.

    “This money is paid to you under the arrears of remuneration for
    Persons of Incomes Below Tax Level Board (O. in C.AQ430028), as
    has been announced in the public press and elsewhere.

    “_Note._ You will help your country if you do not hoard this
    money but translate it into goods immediately.

                                                       “R. W. Smith,
                                                             Compt.”

The second envelope was directed to a Mr Wild, or Wilder, of 13 Pond
Street, Manchester, 4. It contained a copy of the same slip and four of
the counterfeit notes.

The third should have gone to a Mrs Edith somebody of Handel Buildings,
Lead Road, Northampton, and contained, beside the familiar slip, nine
pounds in spurious notes.

The addresses explained the scheme to the two men and they shivered. It
was very obvious. Someone had simply got hold of the registers belonging
to the various social service schemes functioning in the poorer
districts of the industrial towns. These would contain between them the
names of most of the permanently unemployed, those who had ever received
help from State or local bodies, and all those thousand-and-one poorer
folk whose names and addresses had ever been tabulated.

Campion held his breath. It all pointed directly to Pyne again. Lists of
addresses of that kind would be just the thing in which Surveys Limited
would have specialized. More than probably millions of addresses like
these constituted the firm’s main stock-in-trade. Many of them would be
out of date, of course. The main bulk was bound to be damagingly
correct.

The central idea lay revealed in all its destructiveness. Vast numbers
of needy folk in all the poorer parts of the country were suddenly to be
presented with a handful of money and instructions to spend it. The evil
genius of the proposal lay in the fact that the windfall was to appear
to come directly from the one authority from whom the recipients would
accept money not only without question, but also with the dangerous
assumption that it was in some inexplicable fashion their right to
receive it.

As soon as Campion saw the scheme in its simple entirety he realized the
overwhelming fact that in such circumstances the only thing any
Government could hope to do was to admit the notes as legal tender and
accept the consequences, however terrible they might turn out to be. It
would be quite impossible to take the money back.

The practical arrangements had been a miracle of efficiency. The money
had been inserted in the envelopes by a machine. The trucks were
obviously due to spread out all over the country, posting their
“Government mail” at main post offices all over the West of England. By
synchronizing the plan with the launching of Minute Fifteen at a time
when the authorities were prepared for an enormous influx of official
letters, the G.P.O. was to be neatly tricked into rendering vital
assistance and ensuring that the secret blow would fall at the same
moment in every part of the land. The earlier, clumsier method of
distributing the money must have been in the nature of a try-out to test
the actual currency itself.

Campion wiped his face, which was still bleeding slightly. He felt sick
with relief. Hutch leant close to him and his eyes were questioning.
Campion guessed what he was asking and as suddenly knew the answer also.
The whole vivid procession had brought them directly to Pyne, and Pyne
was not convincing. The principal thing about him, the thing that
overshadowed everything else, was that he was first and foremost an
ordinary commercially-minded business man. There was no passion in him,
no fanaticism, no emotional driving force. As a full-blown enemy agent
he seemed unlikely; as a Quisling he was frankly absurd. From first to
last he had behaved like a business man undertaking a delicate job for a
client, and in that case who was his principal? Who? Who was employing
Pyne? Who was it who had carried this half-prepared plan of the enemy’s
through to within an ace of success? Who had discovered the presence of
the counterfeit and had then, either with or without direct contact with
the enemy country, put the whole diabolical scheme into existence? That
was the question.

The answer seemed to be contained in another. Who had the facilities for
acquiring and accommodating a large army of local volunteer labour to
address “Government envelopes”? Who would have had access to sufficient
petrol, real or synthetic, to propel so many lorries?

Sir Henry Bull’s description of Lee Aubrey came back very vividly to
Campion.

“He’s a curious product, part genius, part crank. One moment he’s doing
untold service and the next he’s trying to advance a hare-brained scheme
for running the country.”


                                  XXI

Campion leant against the wall in Lee Aubrey’s gracious, comfortable
study and considered the scene before him. It was one of those lucid,
almost contemplative moments which sometimes arrive in the very heart of
a crisis. Just for a moment he saw the whole history of the plan and its
defeat in the round, as if it had been a play and this present moment
the final scene.

The picture in front of him might easily have been on a stage. It was so
brightly lit, so tense, so painfully dramatic. The room was very quiet.
The two constables on the door stood stiffly. The distinguished company,
with Oates himself in the middle looking like a grey corpse which had
begun to fidget, was anxious and constrained. Sir Henry Bull, who had
just arrived from London and was now surrounded by most of his fellow
Masters, was glancing at the documents over which Hutch’s Chief
Inspector and an M.I.5 man were presiding.

The cupboard beneath the high bookcase stood open. So did every drawer
in the room, as the squad of trained men methodically packed and
docketed the papers they were taking away.

Lee Aubrey himself stood on the hearthrug with a plain-clothes man on
either side of him. He looked astonished and faintly irritated, but
there was no trace of alarm in his big-boned face and he was certainly
far less gauche than usual.

It was the importance of the men which made the scene unique in
Campion’s experience. There was a note almost of domestic tragedy about
the situation. It was like the disowning of the eldest son, the disgrace
in the regiment, the expulsion from the school.

The Masters of Bridge were angry and horrified but also deeply hurt and
ashamed. Even the police were not triumphant.

“The evidence against that fellow Pyne, who was killed, is of course
conclusive,” said Oates to Sir Henry. He spoke softly but included in
his glance the thin, scandalized man who was Aubrey’s solicitor and had
only just arrived.

Sir Henry nodded grimly without speaking.

“I think there is no doubt that he must have been the moving spirit,”
the solicitor was venturing timidly when Aubrey interrupted from the
hearthrug.

“My dear chap, don’t be an ass,” he said. “I employed Pyne because, not
only was he obviously the right man for the job, but he had the right
kind of organization at his finger-tips. He was doing his work very
efficiently until he was stopped.”

“Take care.” Oates turned on the man sharply, his haggard face unusually
grim. In the background a detective-sergeant had begun to scribble in
his notebook unobtrusively.

Aubrey’s colour darkened and he threw out his long arms in an awkward
gesture.

“My dear good people, this is all too absurd,” he said, his deep
pleasant voice flexible and persuasive as ever. “I’m perfectly willing
to reserve my defence as you all advise so magnificently, but there’s no
point in making a mystery of the thing where none exists. It’s quite
_clear_ what I’ve been doing. For heaven’s sake see those fellows at my
desk handle the green folders with care, because they contain the one
vital scheme of government for this benighted country at the present
time. I had to be unorthodox in my methods of forcing the Government to
take it up, I admit that, but it was a case of necessity.”

“Good God, Aubrey, do you realize what you’re saying?” Sir Henry’s face
was as white as his hair.

“Yes, Bull, of course I do.” The Principal of the Bridge Institute was
at his most gently superior. “A great deal of the blame is yours. You
made a very dangerous mistake last year when you failed to understand
the importance of the financial scheme I put up to you then. All these
Social Credit fellows, and Keynes and the rest, they have glimmerings of
the idea, but they’re none of them sufficiently drastic or far-reaching.
My plan would have put the economic life of the country on an entirely
new basis. Since I could not get a government to see reason by argument
I realized I had to put them in a position in which they would be only
too glad to listen to me. I had to smash their existing economy and
create a chaos in which they would automatically turn to the one man who
could save them. That’s perfectly clear. There’s nothing difficult to
understand about that.”

He was leaning against the mantelpiece now, lecturing academically from
what he clearly felt to be an infinite height of intellectual
superiority.

“Poor Campion here, who probably believes he’s done his duty,” he
continued, “in reality he has betrayed his country and probably
civilization by his interference. I had the whole little ingenuity
completely in hand. It wasn’t out of control. I knew Feiberg quite well.
I met him in Frankfurt years ago. Quite an interesting mind.
Extraordinarily meticulous over detail. I knew he was a Nazi agent when
he turned up here, and in fact I think I probably suggested to him that
the storerooms in the Nag would be an excellent place for his
counterfeit. I may have mentioned too that the Masters were taking their
money from the Rhenish vineyards in wine instead of cash and pointed out
that such a shipment would give him a perfect opportunity to get his
stuff into the country without query. I certainly put him on to
Anscombe. I knew that man would be reasonable if properly approached.
There’s nothing to get excited about in that. I allowed it to happen
because I knew it was perfectly safe. Last August I knew we had nothing
to fear, because no foreign power on earth could have got the plan into
operation once we were at war. I knew it was coming and Feiberg did not.
He did not believe we should fight so soon. I saw that the money arrived
and when war came I arranged for Feiberg to be interned. That left me
with a weapon in my own hand if I needed it. I did not use it until I
was really convinced that there was no other way. Then I saw that
something had to be done, to be done quickly, and my plan was the only
solution. So I found the man Pyne, who chose his own assistants, and
through him I arranged to engineer the greatest crash in history, so
that in picking up the pieces I could restore a decent order at last.
You’re following me, of course?”

They were. The whole room was hanging on his words with sick
fascination. The old solicitor was in tears. He was an honest man with a
wide reputation. He sat down abruptly in a corner and wiped his face
again and again.

“God bless my soul,” he was ejaculating in a soft regular monotone. “God
bless my soul. Good Lord. God bless my soul.”

Oates leant forward in his chair. He looked a very sick man and was out
strictly against doctor’s orders.

“You had the envelopes addressed at the Institute by voluntary labour?”
he said. “That enormous undertaking was organized by a woman, wasn’t
it?”

“Mrs Ericson?” A flicker of kindly regret passed over Aubrey’s face.
“Yes, she did all that for me and did it very well. She hadn’t the
faintest idea why I needed them, of course. She’s one of those intense
people who are simply very gratified in having a job to do at all. She
made a religion of being discreet in the matter, as I knew she would.
Pyne and his fellows, on the other hand, were arranging a private pool
to clean up a packet on the crashing markets. That shows the different
temperament. The mere fact that they did not think I knew, and they
imagined they were being disloyal to me, satisfied the criminal streak
which I recognized in them at once and made it safe for me to use them.
They’re both examples of what I mean by choosing the right people for
the right job. It’s a gift and an art. My whole scheme of government is
based, virtually speaking, on just that main essential.”

Sir Henry passed a stubby hand through his hair. His lips were grey. He
looked very tired.

“You have not explained the part you were to play in this new government
of yours,” he said.

Aubrey turned on him. He seemed taller and leaner than ever, but there
was a fire in his pale eyes.

“I should have to have exactly the same power in the country as I have
here at the Bridge Institute, of course,” he said. “That surely is
obvious. When there is so much of passionate importance to be done
quickly and ruthlessly then the man in charge must assume full
responsibility.”

As his voice ceased there was such a breathless, such an electric
silence in the room, that the undertones of the pronouncement hung in
the air. To Campion it was the most ghastly moment of them all. The man
was brilliant, able, and in his own limited sphere doubtless extremely
useful, yet as he stood there, smiling faintly at them, his mistaken
belief in his own superiority cut him off from reality as completely as
if he were living in a coloured glass jar.

He was utterly unaware of the enormity of his sin. He believed
implicitly that he alone was capable of directing the Empire and had
been fully prepared to destroy the whole structure of its economic life
in order to get into command.

The men who had trusted and admired him remained looking at him and the
same thought was in all their eyes: “This is not even the stuff
dictators are made of, but this is the kind of madness which is often
not found out until it is too late.”

Campion pulled himself away from the wall and edged his way out. He had
had so much emotional strain in the last three days that this final and
objective example was too much for him. He felt physically ill. The
house was alive with police. In the drawing-room across the hall a woman
was crying wearily, her sobs sounding above the steady rumble of the
interrogating officer. He guessed she was Mrs Ericson.

He pushed on through the plain-clothes men, the influential friends, the
M.I.5 personnel, and the Home Office experts and went out of the front
door. It was another clear bright night with visibility nearly as good
as day. The constable on duty on the door saluted him with such
spontaneous deference that he knew he was already a nine-days’ wonder in
the west-country police force. He strode on across the grass, drawing
the clean night air deep into his lungs and enjoying the moist wind on
his skin.

Presently Amanda joined him. She materialized at his side as he passed
under the shadow of the house and they walked on for some time without
speaking. Campion had been thinking of her steadily for some hours. Ever
since the answer to Hutch’s unspoken question had come to him so
decisively in the Masters’ storerooms, her reaction to the affair had
haunted him. The present situation was irretrievable as well as being so
miserably awkward that, had she been anybody else in the world, the only
possible thing to have done would have been to hurry back to one’s job
immediately and concentrate on other things with one’s eyes, ears, and
heart shut. Since she was Amanda, however, and not just an ordinary
woman with whom one happened to be in love, that was not possible. She
did not seem anxious to talk herself, but there was no constraint in her
manner. She had taken his arm, as usual, and seemed content to wander
and speculate much as he was doing.

They walked on for so long that his thought had time to settle and
crystallize and become almost impersonal.

“I tell you one thing,” he said suddenly. “Even if he hadn’t turned out
to be this particular kind of lunatic you would never have married him.”

“No,” she agreed frankly. “No, I wouldn’t.”

He looked down at her and caught her grinning to herself. It was an
unexpected reaction and he wondered if the light was playing tricks.

“Are you laughing?” he demanded.

“Only at me,” said Amanda with typical if devastating honesty. “Go on.”

He looked ahead of them at the great silhouettes which the trees made
against the moonlit sky. There was something on Campion’s mind and he
intended to say it, not because it might comfort her—if she was human
and female it would probably infuriate her—but because she was Amanda
and her education was important. She ought to know it and it might help
some day.

“In spite of his brilliance and his staggering conceit, which throws his
whole vision out of focus, that chap is a type,” he began abruptly. “Did
you ever notice that woman Mrs Ericson?”

He thought he heard Amanda catch her breath. Then she chuckled. There
was no other word for that murmur of mingled amusement and relief.

“Of course I did,” she said. “I’m terrifically relieved you saw it too.
I mean if you’re trying to explain that Lee has a habit of making
extravagant passes at people conveying that he’s hopelessly in love with
them, so that they’ll respond and he’ll have the flattering experience
of declining their affections with sweet sympathetic understanding, I
know about it. I don’t think he works it out like that, of course, but
it just keeps happening to him and one side of his mind finds it a
delightful surprise to him every time while the other side attends to
the machinery for making it come off. I was the complete mug. I was
awfully surprised.”

How like her. Not “I was wounded.” Not “I was furious.” Not “I was
wretchedly degraded.” Just “I was awfully surprised.”

“When did all this happen?” he enquired.

“Just before I brought old Miss Anscombe to see you at that pub. I was
going to tell you, because I was rather full of it, and—oh, you know
how one is—rather sore and embarrassed. But it didn’t seem to be quite
the time for intimate revelations. You were a bit peculiar yourself, if
you remember.”

Peculiar! He did remember. He remembered her face, too, hurt and
bewildered as the idiotic couplet hung unfinished between them. Another
thought occurred to him and he turned to her in consternation.

“You had to come back here. I sent you back.”

“Yes, I know,” she said, “but it had to be done. Besides, it rubbed the
whole thing in until I really did understand it. He enjoyed it so. I did
get the whole thing clear and I _was_ here when they phoned from
Coachingford Police Station, so it was worth while.”

Campion put an arm round her and held the small circle of her
shoulder-bone. For the first time in his life he felt completely adult.
His hesitancy, his qualms, his intellectual doubts seemed suddenly the
stuff of childhood.

“Let’s get married early tomorrow,” he said. “I’ve only got thirty-six
hours’ leave. A message came through tonight. I ought to have this conk
on my head looked at too. It’s time we got married.”

“Yes,” said Amanda, who never bothered with illusions. “It’s time we got
married.”

They went back to the house to get hold of Oates, who could probably fix
any licensing difficulty. Just before they reached the door Amanda
turned to Campion.

“I’m sorry I boxed your ears,” she said, “but you flicked me on the raw.
You weren’t quite like yourself, either, you know.”

“My good girl, I was nuts,” he began and hesitated. It was no good. He
just did not want to tell her the full extent of his recent disability.
The dreadful revelation of his helplessness and his need for her was
still a vividly remembered pain.

Amanda waited a moment and finally laughed.

“Get it right this time, then,” she commanded. “_‘Begone!’ she stormed.
‘Across the raging tide!’_”

Campion grinned as the delightful cockney rhyme returned to him. He
pulled her towards him.

“‘_Dear Jove! Why did I go?_’” he quoted accurately, and kissed her as
he finished with triumphant satisfaction the ecstatic Victorian
anti-climax, so apt and so absurd, “‘_I should have stiyed!_’”




                           TRANSCRIBER NOTES

Misspelled words and printer errors have been corrected. Where multiple
spellings occur, majority use has been employed.

Punctuation has been maintained except where obvious printer errors
occur.

[The end of _Traitor’s Purse_ by Margery Allingham]
